The following is a list of events of the year 2024 in the United States. With the dominant political story of the year being the 2024 presidential election, most American-focused media outlets routinely covered the nominees. Former president Donald Trump became the second president in American history to win two non-consecutive terms, defeating Democratic vice president Kamala Harris, who became her party's nominee after incumbent president Joe Biden withdrew from the race. American politics also focused on responses to the ongoing war between Israel and Hamas that started in the year prior (particularly the protests on college campuses against Israel), recent developments in abortion policy, and the passing of a law that de jure banned TikTok in January of the following year. Much of the national media also paid close attention to Trump's civil and criminal trials, as well as two assassination attempts on Trump, one in July and another in September.
The Federal Trade Commission, under chair Lina Khan, also played a more proactive role in the economics of the U.S., with Khan blocking many mergers and acquisitions, including one between airlines JetBlue and Spirit. In business, the American economy underwent a bull market, with Nvidia in particular, due to demand for its chips in the use of artificial intelligence, becoming the third largest publicly-traded company by market capitalization, and partially enabling major American stock indices such as the S&P 500 to achieve record highs. Nvidia's success story, though, was contrasted by a series of safety failures, malfunctions, and crashes involving passenger aircraft designed and assembled by Boeing, among the most notable of which was Alaska Airlines Flight 1282 in which a door plug blew out. Additionally, Spirit Airlines, radio operator Audacy, for-profit hospital chain Steward Health Care System, retailers Jo-Ann Stores and rue21, restaurant chains Red Lobster and TGI Fridays, bussing company Coach USA, electric vehicle maker Fisker, and food storage container firm Tupperware have filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Several major hurricanes and tornado outbreaks occurred across the United States during the year, including the tornado outbreak sequence of May 19–27, Hurricane Helene, and Hurricane Milton.
The US general elections were held on November 5 of this year. In the federal government, the offices up for election were president, vice president, all 435 seats of the House of Representatives, and roughly one third of the Senate. In this year's presidential election, Joe Biden ran for a second term. With former president Donald Trump's declaration to run for the office again and both he and Biden were their respective parties' presumptive presidential nominees, the election would have been a rematch of the 2020 election. On July 21, 2024, however President Biden announced his withdrawal from the presidential race and endorsed his vice president Kamala Harris as the Democratic nominee. In the Senate, at least seven seats, those of Senators Tom Carper from Delaware, Mike Braun from Indiana, Ben Cardin from Maryland, Debbie Stabenow from Michigan, Bob Menendez from New Jersey, Mitt Romney from Utah, and Joe Manchin from West Virginia, will be open contests; the seat of the late Dianne Feinstein is also expected to be an open contest with Feinstein's immediate successor, Laphonza Butler, expected not to seek a full term.
Concerning state governments, 11 states and two territories will hold gubernatorial elections, and most states and territories will hold elections for their legislatures. Many major cities, including Baltimore, Las Vegas, Honolulu, Milwaukee, Miami, Phoenix, San Diego, and San Francisco will also elect their mayors.
2024 February 13 – Republican George Santos was expelled in from the House of Representatives in December 2023 after an investigation for corruption charges, vacating New York's 3rd congressional district. In the special election, Democrat Tom Suozzi reclaimed his former seat against Republican Mazi Melesa Pilip, flipping the swing district and narrowing the margin of Republican control in Congress.
2024 April 30 – A special election was held in New York's 26th congressional district after Brian Higgins resigned to become president of Shea's Performing Arts Center in Buffalo. Democrat Tim Kennedy was elected to succeed him.
2024 May 21 – Republican Kevin McCarthy, who was ousted from his position as speaker of the House in October 2023, resigned from Congress at the end of the year. In the special election for California's 20th congressional district, Republican Vince Fong defeated fellow Republican Mike Boudreaux in a runoff to succeed McCarthy.
2024 June 11 – A special election was held for Ohio's 6th congressional district following the resignation of Bill Johnson, who accepted the position of president of Youngstown State University. Republican Michael Rulli defeated Democrat Michael Kripchak by a smaller margin than expected.
2024 June 25 – A special election was held for Colorado's 4th congressional district after Republican Ken Buck resigned early after initially announcing his retirement at the end of the term. Republican Greg Lopez won the election against Democrat Trisha Calvarese and Libertarian Hannah Goodman.
2024 September 18 – Democrat Donald Payne Jr. of New Jersey's 10th congressional district died in April 2024 following a heart attack caused by complications of diabetes. Democrat LaMonica McIver defeated Republican Carmen Bucco in the special election for the fully urban district.
2024 November 5 Following the death of California senator Dianne Feinstein in September 2023, governor Gavin Newsom called for a special election to be held concurrently with the scheduled regular election for the same seat. Democrat Adam Schiff and Republican Steve Garvey advanced to the general election through a nonpartisan blanket primary.
Nebraska will hold a special election for its Class 2 Senate seat following the resignation of Ben Sasse in January 2023 to serve as president of the University of Florida. Incumbent Republican senator Pete Ricketts, who was appointed by governor Jim Pillen, is running for a full term, and will face Democrat Preston Love Jr. in the general election.
Democrat Sheila Jackson Lee died from pancreatic cancer in July 2024 while serving her 15th term in Texas's 18th congressional district. The sole Democratic candidate for the special election is Erica Lee Carter, the daughter of Jackson Lee.
Republican Mike Gallagher, who chaired the recently formed House Select Committee on China, resigned from Congress in April 2024 over his opposition to the impeachment of Homeland Security secretary Alejandro Mayorkas. The special election for Wisconsin's 8th congressional district will be held between Republican Tony Wied and Democrat Kristin Lyerly.
2024 January 1 Public Domain Day: Books, films, and other works published in 1928 enter the public domain. The most notable work entering into the public domain is Steamboat Willie, the earliest version of Mickey Mouse, leading to the announcement of multiple works based on this version of the character. Four people, including the perpetrator, are killed in a vehicle attack in Rochester, New York.
2024 January 2 – Harvard University president Claudine Gay announces her resignation following a contentious house hearing on antisemitism and allegations of plagiarism in her earlier academic career.
January 3 – A series of documents containing the names of associates of sex offender Jeffrey Epstein are made available to the public. A majority of those mentioned are found to not be directly involved in any wrongdoing.
2024 January 4 Criminal proceedings in the January 6 United States Capitol attack: Former Proud Boys member Christopher John Worrell is sentenced to 10 years in prison. Two people are killed and six others are injured in a school shooting in Perry, Iowa. The shooter, a 17-year-old-student at the school, committed suicide at the scene. A principal who tried to intervene and was shot later died from his injuries on January 14.
2024 January 5 – Alaska Airlines Flight 1282 suffers an uncontrolled decompression after one of the emergency exit doors on the Boeing 737 MAX 9 blows out, resulting in an emergency landing in Portland and the FAA grounding all 737 Max 9s.
2024 January 7 – Audacy, the largest radio operator in the country, files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
2024 January 8 Clashes break out at the World Headquarters of the Chabad-Lubavitch movement in Brooklyn, New York City after construction workers for the synagogue leaders attempted to fill in a tunnel that students had illegally dug beneath the building, resulting in the arrest of nine people. The incident causes antisemitic social media posts by far-right and QAnon figures to spread online. The Michigan Wolverines defeat the Washington Huskies by a score of 34–13 to win the College Football Playoff National Championship.
2024 January 8–10 – A storm complex, which caused $2.7 billion (2024 USD) in damage, brought a winter storm to the northern United States and a tornado outbreak to the Gulf Coast.
2024 January 10 Former New Jersey governor Chris Christie suspends his 2024 campaign for president. Florida-based grocer Publix opens their first Kentucky store near the Gene Snyder Freeway in Louisville, entering their 8th U.S. state of operation.
2024 January 11 The New England Patriots mutually part ways with longtime head coach Bill Belichick after a notably poor season for the team. The Texas National Guard seizes a park in the border town of Eagle Pass, Texas in response to the growing Mexico–United States border crisis and does not allow Border Patrol agents in the area as they previously used the park to detain migrants and instead places their own barbed wire and barriers.
2024 January 12 Operation Prosperity Guardian: A US-led coalition launches air strikes at Houthi militant locations in Yemen, marking a retaliation to the Houthi's attacks on ships in the Red Sea. Heartland Signal leaks a video of Texas Governor Greg Abbott making controversial comments about Texas shooting migrants who cross the Mexico–United States border on a Dana Loesch Show which lead to condemnations from Democratic party members and Mexico.
2024 January 13 – Israel–Hamas war protests in the United States: The March on Washington for Gaza takes place on the 100th day since the start of the Israel–Hamas war, the start of South Africa's genocide case against Israel in the ICJ, and a day after the Yemen missile strikes, attracting what is believed to be over 100,000 protestors.
2024 January 14 The Detroit Lions win their first postseason game since the 1991–92 playoffs with a 24–23 win against the Los Angeles Rams. The Green Bay Packers become the first 7th seed to defeat a 2nd seed in the playoffs since its introduction in the 2020–21 playoffs.
2024 January 15 – 2024 Republican Party presidential primaries: Ohio businessman Vivek Ramaswamy ends his presidential campaign after securing only 7.7% of the vote in the Iowa caucuses. Former Governor of Arkansas Asa Hutchinson ends his campaign the next day after receiving less than 1% of the vote in the same.
2024 January 16 – Harvey Weinstein sexual abuse cases: A new lawsuit is filed by Kellye Croft against Madison Square Garden Entertainment chairman James L. Dolan, accusing him of pressuring her into unwanted sex back in 2014. She also files a lawsuit against American former film producer Harvey Weinstein, accusing him of sexually assaulting her.
2024 January 18 – The United States Congress approves a stopgap bill to extend the deadline for government funding to March 2024, narrowly avoiding a government shutdown, which would have begun at midnight, 2024 January 19.
2024 January 19 – Alec Baldwin is indicted for involuntary manslaughter after an accidental shooting on the set of Rust in 2021 which killed cinematographer Halyna Hutchins and injured director Joel Souza.
2024 January 20 – At least 60 people are killed across the country after two weeks of winter storms that caused dangerous road conditions and widespread power outages that could take weeks to fix.
2024 January 21 2024 Republican Party presidential primaries: Governor of Florida Ron DeSantis suspends his campaign for President after a poor showing in Iowa and waning poll numbers in New Hampshire. A series of shootings take place around Joliet, Illinois, killing eight and injuring one. Two days later, the perpetrator takes his own life after being confronted by law enforcement in Natalia, Texas.
2024 January 24 – During the Standoff at Eagle Pass, part of the broader Mexico–United States border crisis, the Supreme Court rules against Texas for placing barbed wire at the border with Mexico. In response, Texas Governor Greg Abbott announces that his state would not be following the orders of the court. At least 23 states announce their allegiance to Texas, including Florida, who has sent their own National Guard unit to aid the Texas National Guard and Texas Rangers.
2024 January 25 Convicted murderer Kenneth Smith is executed in the Holman Correctional Facility in Alabama, using nitrogen hypoxia, the first death row inmate to die via this method. The United States Department of Commerce issues a $15 million bounty for information on Hossein Hatefi Ardakani, an Iranian businessman accused of procuring parts for drones assembled by Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps that were later sold to Russia.
2024 January 26 In E. Jean Carroll v. Donald J. Trump, the jury awards Carroll $83.3 million after finding the defendant guilty of defamation. The Justice Department finds former New York Governor Andrew Cuomo liable for sexual harassment. AWS announced plans to break ground on two large data center facilities in Mississippi, marking a $10 billion investment expected to create 1,000 jobs.
2024 January 27 – The US suspends UNRWA funds after claims come out that twelve staff members took part in the October 7 attacks in 2023, which included American victims.
2024 January 28 – Tower 22 drone attack – An Iranian backed militant group launches a drone attack on a US base in Jordan, killing three and wounding forty-seven. The US launches several missiles at Iraq and Syria in retaliation for the drone attack four days later.
2024 February 1 Israel–Hamas war: The US imposes sanctions on Israeli settlers over the violence in West Bank. Three people are killed when a Beechcraft Bonanza V35 crashes into a waterfront house in Clearwater, Florida. Two of the casualties are on the ground while the third is the pilot. Three other houses are damaged by a fire which results from the crash. The Oregon Supreme Court upholds Ballot Measure 113 by banning ten of the twelve Republican members of the Oregon Senate for refusing to attend six weeks worth of legislative sessions in order to stall Democratic legislation.
2024 February 4 The 66th Annual Grammy Awards are held at the Crypto.com Arena in Los Angeles. "Flowers" by Miley Cyrus wins Record of the Year and Midnights by Taylor Swift wins Album of the Year. The schedule for the 2026 FIFA World Cup which will be co-hosted by the US, Canada, and Mexico is released. A total of 78 games will be played in the US, including the final.
2024 February 6 Social media network Bluesky, seen as a potential rival to X, is opened for public registrations, dropping its previous invite-only format. Toyota announced a $1.3 billion investment in a new Kentucky factory for a three-row electric SUV and EV battery packs.
2024 February 7 Self-help author Marianne Williamson ends her presidential campaign after losing three Democratic primaries to President Biden. 2024 East Lansdowne shooting: At least six members of a family are presumed dead in a house fire in East Lansdowne, Pennsylvania following a shooting which injured two police officers. Children’s Health and UT Southwestern Medical Center announced plans for a $5 billion campus in the Medical District near Clements University Hospital in Dallas, Texas.
2024 February 8 Five US Marines are found dead two days after the CH-53E Super Stallion helicopter they were in crashed in the mountains outside of San Diego during a routine training flight from Creech Air Force Base to Marine Corps Air Station Miramar. Joe Biden classified documents incident: Special counsel Robert K. Hur recommends that no charges be brought against President Biden, though notes in Hur's report regarding Biden's failure to recall events prompts controversy regarding his age and memory. Tucker Carlson conducts The Vladimir Putin Interview in Moscow, where Vladimir Putin shares his reasons for Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The interview is accused of promoting Russian disinformation and pro-war propaganda. Sixteen-year-old non-binary Oklahoma student Nex Benedict dies after an incident stemming from repeated bullying due to their gender identity in their high school. This results in backlash towards Ryan Walters, the Oklahoma Superintendent of Public Instruction who has defended Oklahoma's anti-LGBT policies, and calls to investigate Nex's death as a hate crime.
2024 February 9 Six people, including CEO of Access Bank Herbert Wigwe and former chair of the Nigerian Exchange Group Abimbola Ogunbanjo, are killed when their helicopter crashes near Baker, California en route to Las Vegas for Super Bowl LVIII. Hop-A-Jet Flight 823 suffers a dual engine failure en route from Columbus, Ohio to Naples, Florida and attempts to land on Interstate 75, but this destroys the aircraft and kills the two pilots, though the two passengers and one flight attendant survive.
2024 February 11 – The Kansas City Chiefs win Super Bowl LVIII against the San Francisco 49ers 25–22 in overtime at Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas, the second Super Bowl to go into overtime after Super Bowl LI. The Chiefs are the first repeat champions since the New England Patriots in 2004.
2024 February 12 – A shooting takes place on a 4 Train and at Mount Eden Avenue station in New York City, killing one and injuring five.
2024 February 13 –  Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas is impeached by the House of Representatives.
2024 February 14 – 2024 Kansas City parade shooting: One person is killed and at least nine are injured after a mass shooting during the Kansas City Chiefs' Super Bowl LVIII championship parade at Union Station in Kansas City, Missouri. Two armed suspects were arrested at the scene.
2024 February 15 The US launches six missile-detecting satellites into orbit in response to a "serious national security threat" related to Russia wanting to implement its nuclear capabilities in outer space. Odysseus, the first US lunar lander since the unsuccessful Peregrine Mission One, is launched at the Kennedy Space Center Florida, United States. Scout Motors announced the start of construction on its $2 billion electric SUV plant in South Carolina.
2024 February 16 New York civil investigation of The Trump Organization: Judge Arthur Engoron orders Trump and his companies to pay $355 million ($464 million after interest is added) as a result of being found liable for several counts of fraud. Additionally, his sons Donald Jr. and Eric are ordered to each pay $4 million and former chief financial officer Allen Weisselberg is ordered to pay $1 million. Ten days later, Trump files an appeal of the judge's holding in the case. An official committee which was appointed to represent the plaintiffs in the Sandy Hook lawsuits against Alex Jones unanimously votes to liquidate the far right-wing conspiracy theorist's assets.
2024 February 17 – Former congressman George Santos sues late night host Jimmy Kimmel for $750,000 on charges of copyright infringement, fraud, breach of contract, and unjust enrichment after Kimmel purchased Cameo videos from Santos through fake names then used them on his show.
2024 February 18 – 2024 Burnsville shooting: Police and medics were fired upon from a home while responding to a domestic incident in Burnsville, Minnesota. Two officers and a firefighter were killed while another officer suffered a gunshot wound. After opening fire on first responders, the shooter fatally shot himself.
2024 February 19 – The 2024 Daytona 500 is held with William Byron of Axalta's racing team winning.
2024 February 20 – Three passengers who were on Alaska Airlines Flight 1282 sue Boeing for $1 billion for negligence, claiming the incident caused them physical injuries and post-traumatic stress disorder.
2024 February 21 Biden cancels another $1.2 billion of student loan debts for nearly 153,000 people. Capital One announces an agreement to acquire Discover Financial and its namesake credit card network for nearly $35 billion. LePage v. Center for Reproductive Medicine: The Alabama Supreme Court rules that frozen embryos can be considered children under state law. A ransomware attack cripples Change Healthcare's payment system, disrupting insurance claims and making it difficult for patients to get the prescription medicine that they need.
2024 February 22 AT&T suffers from network outages impacting around 71,000 customers, which also affect Verizon and T-Mobile to a smaller degree. The outages were acknowledged but no reason was given for their occurrence. Two days later, AT&T announced affected customers will be credited $5 on their next bill, the "average cost of a full day of service." Houston-based Intuitive Machines' Nova-C lander becomes the first commercial vehicle to land on the Moon. Augusta University student Laken Riley is murdered while out on a jog by Jose Antonio Ibarra, a 26-year-old Venezuelan citizen who entered illegally in 2022. Her murder sparks media attention and debates about immigration.
2024 February 23 The Biden administration announces over 500 new sanctions on Russian financial institutions, military institutions, sanctions evasion, energy production, and prison officials linked to the death of Alexei Navalny. A high-altitude balloon is detected over Utah, prompting the deployment of fighter aircraft to intercept the object. The origin and purpose of the balloon are unknown, according to US officials.
2024 February 25 – Israel–Hamas war protests in the United States: An Air Force member, identified as Aaron Bushnell, commits self-immolation in front of the Embassy of Israel in DC, as a protest against American support of Israel's war against Hamas. He later died of his injuries.
2024 February 26 – The body of Mahogany Jackson is discovered in an illegal dump site in Birmingham, Alabama.
2024 February 27 – The Smokehouse Creek Fire in the Texas panhandle burns almost 200,000 acres, resulting in a state of emergency for the area.
2024 February 28 – Mitch McConnell announces that he will step down as Senate Republican leader in January 2025. He's been serving as the Senate Republican leader since 2007.
2024 March 1 – Caitlin Clark breaks the all-time NCAA Division I college basketball career scoring record that had been held by Pete Maravich with 3,685 points.
2024 March 2 – United States support for Israel in the Israel–Hamas war: The United States military announces plans to begin airdropping humanitarian aid into Gaza.
2024 March 4 In Trump v. Anderson, the US Supreme Court unanimously rules that states can not keep presidential candidates off the ballot, overturning the Colorado Supreme Court's decision in Anderson v. Griswold.
2022–2023 Pentagon document leaks: Jack Teixeira, a 22-year-old former member of the Massachusetts Air National Guard, pleads guilty to leaking classified Defense Department documents on his Discord server and is sentenced to 16 years and eight months in prison.
A Piper PA-32A crashes on I-40 while attempting to land at John C. Tune Airport in Nashville after suffering a mechanical failure. All five passengers are killed on board.
2024 March 5 The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau issues a new rule capping late fees for credit cards at $8, in accordance with Biden's Executive Order on Promoting Competition in the American Economy.
Louisiana Governor Jeff Landry signs a bill that adds nitrogen gas and electrocution as execution methods.
2024 March 6 2024 United States presidential election: Former UN Ambassador and South Carolina governor Nikki Haley suspends her 2024 campaign for President after a poor showing on Super Tuesday, leaving Trump the presumptive Republican nominee. Minnesota Representative Dean Phillips also ends his campaign for the Democratic nomination after losing several primaries to President Biden.
2024 March 7 – President Biden delivers his third State of the Union Address.
2024 March 8 A highway crash near Dewhurst, Wisconsin involving a van and a semi-tractor kills nine people and injures one.
A UH-72 Lakota helicopter crashes while conducting an aviation operation 41 miles west of McAllen, Texas, killing one border patrol agent and two National Guard soldiers and injuring another.
Former Honduran president Juan Orlando Hernández is found guilty in a Manhattan court of conspiring with drug traffickers and enabling the transportation of over 400 tons of cocaine from Honduras to the US.
2024 March 9 – Utah adopts its new state flag, 113 years after the adoption of its former flag.
2024 March 10 The 96th Academy Awards are held at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. Christopher Nolan's Oppenheimer is nominated for thirteen awards and wins seven, including Best Picture. The ceremony draws an average of 19.5 million viewers, a 4% increase from the previous year.
Five people are killed during a mass stabbing and murder–suicide in Manoa, Honolulu.
An IAI 1125 Astra SP crashes while on approach to Ingalls Field Airport in Hot Springs, Virginia. All five people onboard are killed.
2024 March 13 – The United States deploys a Marine Corps Security Force Regiment platoon to secure the U.S. embassy complex in Port-au-Prince, Haiti and evacuate embassy staff and other Americans citizens amid the ongoing gang war crisis in the country.
2024 March 13–15 – A significant early spring tornado outbreak occurred throughout the Midwestern and Northeastern United States, with the most significant impacts occurring in Indiana and Ohio. The outbreak produced 34 tornadoes and caused $5.9 billion (2024 USD) in damage.
2024 March 14 – SpaceX successfully launches the first Starship rocket, the most powerful rocket ever built, at the Starbase launch site in Boca Chica, Texas after two previous failed attempts. However, the vehicle is lost during reentry.
2024 March 16 – A gunman kills three people in Falls Township, Pennsylvania and escapes in a stolen car. The suspect subsequently travels to Trenton, New Jersey, where he barricades himself with several hostages.
2024 March 18 – Jo-Ann Stores files for chapter 11 bankruptcy after accumulating over $1 billion in debt.
2024 March 19 In United States v. Texas, the Supreme Court declines to block a Texas Senate bill allowing officials to arrest and deport migrants.
Former Mississippi sheriff's deputy Hunter Edward is sentenced to 20-year term of imprisonment for his role in torturing two African-American men in January 2023.
2024 March 20 – The Biden administration announces new vehicle emission standards for 2027–2032, as it pushes for wider adoption of hybrid and electric vehicles.
2024 March 21 – A man identified as Richard Slayman receives a kidney from a genetically engineered pig at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. This medical breakthrough could see the end of dialysis treatment.
2024 March 26 The Francis Scott Key Bridge in Baltimore partially collapses after the large Singaporean cargo ship MV Dali collides with it. Six people are reported missing and presumed dead.
Abortion in the United States: The Supreme Court announces that it will hear a case on whether to restrict access to mifepristone, a commonly-used abortion pill.
AESC announced a $1.5 billion expansion of its lithium-ion EV battery manufacturing in Florence County, South Carolina, creating 1,080 new jobs, bringing the total investment to $3.12 billion and supporting 2,700 new jobs.
2024 March 27 – 2024 Rockford stabbings: Four people are killed and seven others are injured during a mass stabbing in Rockford, Illinois.
2024 March 28 In United States v. Bankman-Fried, the defendant is sentenced to 25 years in prison after being convicted of several counts of wire fraud and money laundering after he scammed $8 billion from investors via his company FTX.
A bill that would have legalized recreational cannabis sales in Virginia is vetoed by governor Glenn Youngkin.
2024 March 31 – Millions of AT&T customers are affected by a data breach that leaked onto the dark web.
2024 April 1 The Supreme Court of Florida rules that the Florida Constitution does not confer a right to abortion, allowing the 15-week abortion ban to remain in effect. The Court's decision also allowed a six week abortion ban, which had been halted by the Court until a decision was made, to proceed. As a result, the ban would take effect 30 days after the ruling. In the same opinion, the Supreme Court also approved Florida Amendment 4 to proceed to the November 2024 ballot, which would enshrine a constitutional right to abortion before fetal viability.
Jacob Flickinger, a dual American-Canadian World Central Kitchen aid worker is killed by an Israeli drone strike alongside six other volunteers while delivering aid to the Gaza Strip amid its humanitarian crisis. The attack sparks outrage from the White House and prompts more criticism towards aid worker casualties stemming from Israel's operations.
2024 April 1–3 – A significant tornado outbreak and derecho affected much of the Midwestern and Southeastern United States. The outbreak of 86 tornadoes and the derecho caused $1.8 billion in damage. A total of 32 million people were estimated to be under watches or warnings issued by the National Weather Service, and over 700,000 people were estimated to have lost power.
2024 April 2 – General Electric splits into three independent companies: GE Aerospace, GE Vernova and GE HealthCare.
2024 April 3 – The United States Army Corps of Engineers begins dredging the San Juan Bay in Puerto Rico to open space for a new natural gas terminal that is expected to add $400 million to the local economy.
2024 April 4 Bird flu spreads to cattle herds in at least six U.S. states, while a dairy farm worker is infected in Texas, becoming the second person to ever become infected with the virus in the United States.
Researchers at the Dark Energy Spectroscopic Instrument in Arizona release the largest 3D map of the universe featuring more than six million galaxies.
2024 April 5 A magnitude 4.8 earthquake strikes New Jersey, causing tremors throughout the East Coast.
99 Cents Only Stores begins closing all of its 371 stores in the United States.
2024 April 7 – In women's college basketball, South Carolina wins the national championship to complete their perfect 38–0 season, only the 10th perfect season in NCAA women's basketball history.
2024 April 8 A total solar eclipse is viewable in the central and northeastern US, with the path of total eclipse over parts of Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Missouri, Illinois, Kentucky, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York, Vermont, New Hampshire, and Maine.
In men's college basketball, Connecticut repeats as national champions, becoming the first program to do so since the Florida Gators did so in 2006 and 2007.
2024 April 9 James and Jennifer Crumbley, parents of convicted Oxford High School shooter Ethan Crumbley, are each sentenced to 10–15 years in prison after being found guilty of involuntary manslaughter earlier this year, the first parents in the nation to be held accountable for their child's school shooting.
Abortion in Arizona: In Planned Parenthood Arizona v. Mayes, the Arizona Supreme Court upholds an 1864 law that disallows most types of abortions.
2024 April 10 – At least one person is killed by flooding in Mississippi as severe storms hit the South.
2024 April 11 – Sabrina Carpenter releases her single "Espresso"
2024 April 12 – A man crashes a semi-trailer truck into a Texas Department of Public Safety building, killing one person and injuring thirteen others.
2024 April 17 Impeachment of Alejandro Mayorkas: The United States Senate votes to dismiss both impeachment articles against Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, by a vote of 51–48 on the first article and 51–49 on the second article.
The Biden administration announces that it will reimpose oil sanctions on Venezuela.
Students at Columbia University begin a pro-Palestinian occupation protest on campus. Hundreds are arrested after New York City leadership orders the protests to disperse, and the protesters are accused of Antisemitism.
2024 April 18 – In ice hockey, the National Hockey League board approves the relocation of the Arizona Coyotes to Salt Lake City, Utah. The team will play home games at the Delta Center, home of the National Basketball Association's Utah Jazz, until a new arena is complete.
2024 April 19 Maxwell Azzarello, a 37-year-old man from St. Augustine, Florida, self-immolates in front of the New York Supreme Court in New York City where the New York state criminal trial against Trump is set to begin. He died early the next day.
Taylor Swift releases her new double album The Tortured Poets Department. It breaks the record for most-streamed album in a single day and she becomes the most-streamed artist in a single day.
Tesla recalls thousands of Cybertrucks due to "safety concerns" involving the truck's accelerator pedals.
The U.S. Department of Education releases revisions to Title IX expanding protections to LGBTQ+ students.
2024 April 20 – The House passes a series of bills that would provide $95 billion in military aid to countries including Ukraine, Israel, and Taiwan.
2024 April 23 After five months with communication problems, NASA receives decipherable data from Voyager 1.
The Federal Trade Commission issues a rule which bans non-compete clauses across nearly all industries and professions, prompting a lawsuit over the new rule from the US Chamber of Commerce and its allies the next day.
The Department of Justice agrees to pay $138.7 million to those who were sexually assaulted by Larry Nassar for the mishandled investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).
A Douglas DC-4 crashes into the Tanana River in Alaska, shortly after takeoff from Fairbanks, killing two people on board.
2024 April 24 Biden signs the Protecting Americans from Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act, requiring that ByteDance sell TikTok to an American company in nine months or face the app being banned in the US. In response, ByteDance sues the U.S. government on First Amendment grounds two weeks later. A similar lawsuit is filed by eight TikTok creators on May 14.
Toyota announced that it will invest $1.4 billion to assemble a new battery electric vehicle at its Princeton facility in Indiana.
2024 April 25–27 – The NFL Draft is held in Detroit with the Chicago Bears taking former USC quarterback Caleb Williams with the first overall pick. Over 700,000 people attend the three day event, breaking the record held by the 2019 draft in Nashville by 100,000.
2024 April 25 Film producer Harvey Weinstein's 2020 rape conviction is overturned by the New York Court of Appeals by a vote of 4–3, and a new trial is ordered. However, Weinstein will still remain in prison on a 2022 conviction in California for rape.
The Federal Communications Commission votes to restore net neutrality rules implemented by the Obama administration after their repeal in 2017.
AWS announced its intention to build new data centers in Indiana as part of an $11 billion investment, the largest capital injection into the region ever.
The University of Southern California cancels its main commencement ceremony due to safety concerns stemming from Israel–Hamas war protests on their campus.
2024 April 25–28 – A very large, deadly and destructive tornado outbreak occurred across the Midwestern, Southern, and High Plains. Over the course of four days, 164 tornadoes touched down, killed 6 people, injured over 178 others, and caused $1.2 billion in damage. On 2024 April 26, a destructive EF4 tornado that struck Elkhorn and Blair in Nebraska and an intense EF3 tornado that struck Minden, Harlan, and Defiance in Iowa, where winds of 224 miles per hour (360 km/h) were measured in the tornado. On 2024 April 27, a deadly and large EF4 tornado struck Marietta, Oklahoma, and two deadly EF3 tornadoes struck Sulphur, Oklahoma, and Holdenville, Oklahoma.
2024 April 26 – The Louisiana Supreme Court rules 4–3 in favor of predominantly White St. George, Louisiana leaving Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
2024 April 29 The United States and Mexico agree to clamp down on illegal immigration; Presidents Joe Biden and Andrés Manuel López Obrador agree to a plan to reduce illegal crossings.
2024 Charlotte shootout: Four law enforcement officers and one gunman are killed and four others are wounded during a shootout in Charlotte, North Carolina.
A Powerball jackpot of $1.3 billion is won by a Laotian immigrant battling cancer.
Texas Governor Greg Abbott sends a letter to the Texas Education Agency instructing it to ignore U.S. President Joe Biden's revisions to Title IX adding protections for LGBTQ+ students.
2024 April 30 – Judge Juan Merchan fines Donald Trump $9,000 for contempt of court, and threatens him with jail if he continues to violate his gag order.
2024 May 1 Federal judge Catherine Eagles blocks several of North Carolina's restrictions on abortion pill mifepristone, striking down a requirement that the drug only be prescribed by doctors in-person, as well as a requirement for patients to have an in-person follow-up appointment.
The United Methodist Church votes 692–51 to repeal a longstanding ban on LGBTQ clergy. The vote also forbids superintendents from forbidding a same-sex wedding.
Pro-Israel counter-protestors attack the pro-Palestinian encampment at the University of California, Los Angeles, throwing objects and attempting to destroy barricades.
2024 May 2 Florida becomes the first state in the United States to ban cultured meat.
Arizona governor Katie Hobbs signs a bill that will allow abortions up to 15 weeks into the pregnancy, reversing the state Supreme Court's decision in Planned Parenthood Arizona v. Mayes from last month.
Clothing retailer Rue21 files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy after accumulating $194.4 million in debt and announces it will close all of its 540 stores after 54 years in business.
2024 May 3 Representative Henry Cuellar is indicted for accepting nearly $600,000 worth of bribes from an Azerbaijan-controlled company and a Mexican bank.
Rivian announced plans to invest $1.5 billion to expand its operations in Illinois.
More than 2,000 people have been arrested for involvement in the pro-Palestinian university campus protests.
The Federal Trade Commission approves ExxonMobil's acquisition of Pioneer Natural Resources for $60 billion after concessions.
2024 May 4 – The 150th edition of the Kentucky Derby is held, with American thoroughbred racehorse Mystik Dan winning in a photo finish.
2024 May 5 McLaren driver Lando Norris wins his first Formula One race after placing first in the Miami Grand Prix.
Kyle Larson defeats Chris Buescher to win the AdventHealth 400 at the Kansas Speedway in the closest finish in NASCAR Cup Series history, winning a photo finish by one-thousandth (0.001) of a second.
2024 May 6 Reactions to 2024 pro-Palestinian protests on university campuses: Columbia University cancels its main graduation ceremony due to ongoing the pro-Palestinian protests and occupation on its campus.
A radical group identifying as "Rachel Corrie's Ghost Brigade" claims responsibility for setting fire to 15 vehicles belonging to the Portland Police Bureau on 2024 May 1. The group stated this act was intended to preemptively prevent the police from dismantling a pro-Palestinian encampment at Portland State University.
Steward Health Care System, a for-profit hospital chain, files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.
The 2024 Met Gala in New York City takes place with the theme "The Garden of Time," celebrating the Met's exhibit Sleeping Beauties: Reawakening Fashion.
The Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights opens an investigation into a gender identity policy of the Katy Independent School District in Texas, which board members passed on August 28, 2023 and requires district employees to disclose to parents if a student requests the use of different pronouns or identifies as transgender.
2024 May 6–10 – A large, major, and deadly tornado outbreak occurred across the Central and Southern United States. Over the course of five days, 179 tornadoes touched down, most of which were clustered around Oklahoma, Michigan, Tennessee, and Alabama. The strongest tornado struck Barnsdall and Bartlesville in Oklahoma at EF4 intensity, with winds estimated at 180 miles per hour (290 km/h).
2024 May 7 – The Boy Scouts of America announces the renaming of the organization to Scouting America, effective on February 8, 2025.
2024 May 8 A statue of the late African American civil rights leader Daisy Bates is unveiled at the U.S. Capitol building in Washington, D.C., representing the state of Arkansas.
Researchers at Google DeepMind announce the development of AlphaFold 3, an AI model that can predict the structures of almost all biological molecules and model the interactions between them.
Healthcare chain Ascension announces it has been the target of a cyber attack on its computer systems.
Following a similar April 29 letter to the Texas Education Agency, Texas Governor Greg Abbott sends a letter to Texas public university systems and community colleges directing them not to comply with U.S. President Joe Biden's revisions to Title IX adding protections for LGBTQ+ students.
2024 May 9 – A record annual increase in atmospheric CO2 is reported from the Mauna Loa Observatory in Hawaii, with a jump of 4.7 parts per million (ppm) compared to a year earlier.
2024 May 10–13 – May 2024 solar storms: Solar cycle 25, a geomagnetic storm, hits Earth, reaching G4 intensity and causing widespread aurorae, with NOAA's Space Weather Prediction Center issuing its first G4-level storm watch since 2005.
2024 May 10 Shenandoah County Public Schools of Virginia votes to reverse its 2020 decision and restores Confederate military leaders' names to schools.
The United States opposes a United Nations General Assembly resolution granting Palestine new rights and privileges, and to reconsider Palestine's request to become a UN member.
A Pennsylvania jury orders ExxonMobil to pay $725.5 million to a former mechanic who claimed that the company's gasoline and solvents caused him to develop leukemia.
2024 May 11 – Minnesota adopts its new state flag to coincide with the 166th anniversary of its date of statehood.
2024 May 13 Aftermath of the Francis Scott Key Bridge collapse: Construction crews use explosives to demolish the remaining parts of the Francis Scott Key Bridge in Baltimore, Maryland. The next step will be to refloat the MV Dali for removal, which will allow maritime traffic to resume normal operations.
Three years after the previous GameStop stock squeeze, Redditors return to artificially inflate GameStop's share price by 75%, to an 18-month high.
The Airlines for America trade association, along with major US airlines American, Delta, United, JetBlue, Hawaiian, and Alaska, files a lawsuit against the United States Department of Transportation over a rule requiring upfront disclosure of airline fees.
OpenAI announces a new model of their generative pretrained transformer (GPT) named GPT-4o, capable of visual and video speech recognition and translation.
2024 May 14 United States Army Major Harrison Mann resigns from the Defense Intelligence Agency over the U.S.' support for Israel in Gaza.
Eighteen Republican states file a lawsuit against the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to block legal protections for transgender workers.
Biden passes tariff increases on Chinese imports, including electric vehicle batteries, computer chips, and medical products.
Eight people are killed and 40 others are injured when a bus carrying farmworkers collides with a truck and overturns in Marion County, Florida.
Tennessee governor Bill Lee signs into law a bill that would see the death penalty for defendants convicted of child rape.
Seafood restaurant chain Red Lobster announces it will close 99 locations across the country. The chain filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy the next week.
2024 May 15 Walgreens says that it will sell a generic version of the anti-overdose medication naloxone for ten dollars cheaper than the brand-name version, Narcan, also available on its shelves.
A barge hits the Pelican Island Causeway in Galveston, Texas, causing damage to the bridge and an oil spill in the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway.
Federal prosecutors in Manhattan charge two brothers Anton and James Peraire-Bueno, the sons of Jaime Peraire, with conspiracy to commit wire fraud, and conspiracy to commit money laundering, after they were arrested for exploiting the Ethereum blockchain and stealing $25 million worth of cryptocurrency.
The United States imposes visa restrictions on over 250 members of the Nicaraguan government along with sanctions on three entities for "repressive action" and failure to control migrant smuggling through Nicaragua.
Houston Astros pitcher Ronel Blanco is ejected from the game against the Oakland Athletics and receives a 10-game suspension after foreign substances were found in his glove.
The Supreme Court lets Louisiana use a new congressional map with two majority-Black congressional districts in the 2024 House of Representatives elections.
2024 May 16 The Dow Jones Industrial Average surpasses 40,000 points for the first time.
The European Union opens a formal investigation into Meta for potential breaches in online content rules relating to child safety on Facebook and Instagram, violating the Digital Services Act.
Blinken announces a $2 billion additional military aid package for Ukraine, aimed at investing in Ukraine's industrial base.
A significant derecho struck the Gulf Coast of the United States from Southeast Texas to Florida, causing widespread damage, particularly in the city of Houston and surrounding metropolitan area.
2024 May 19–27 – A multi-day period of significant tornado outbreaks, along with significant derechos, occurred across the Midwestern United States and the Mississippi Valley. From May 19–27, two derechos occurred and 247 tornadoes touched down, which killed 31 people, injured at least 243 others, and caused $7.3 billion in damage. On May 21, a large and violent multi-vortex tornado struck Greenfield, Iowa at EF4 intensity. In Greenfield, a mobile radar measured winds of 309–318 miles per hour (497–512 km/h) inside the tornado, marking the third time winds of over 300 miles per hour (480 km/h) had ever been measured. On May 25, an intense EF3 tornado struck Rosston, Era, Valley View, and Pilot Point in Texas, killing seven people, making it the deadliest tornado of both the outbreak sequence and in the United States during 2024 and injuring up to 100 others. Due to a malfunction, tornado sirens in Valley View would not sound before the tornado struck. On May 26, another intense EF3 tornado struck Eddyville, Crider, Charleston, and Barnsley in Kentucky, which prompted the issuance of four tornado emergencies.
2024 May 20 The container ship Dali is freed from bridge debris since its initial collision on March 26 and is escorted by tugboats back to the port of Baltimore.
Judges grant Julian Assange permission to appeal his extradition order from the United Kingdom to the United States.
2024 May 21 – The Department of Justice files a complaint to sue the state of Oklahoma after the state's lawmakers drafted House Bill 4156, which would criminalize anyone without legal immigration status.
2024 May 22 Biden announces a student loans debt cancellation of $7.7 billion for 160,000 people.
Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton files a lawsuit against the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and members of the Biden administration to contest EEOC guidance stating that denying employees accommodations for their gender identity is workplace harassment.
2024 May 23 During a state visit tp the US by Kenyan president William Ruto, President Biden announces his intention to designate Kenya as a major non-NATO ally.
The Department of Justice, along with 29 states and the District of Columbia, file a sweeping antitrust lawsuit against Ticketmaster and its parent company Live Nation Entertainment for running an illegal monopoly over live events. A separate consumer class action lawsuit by ticket buyers is filed against the same defendants the next day.
2024 May 24 Two Americans, including the daughter of Missouri senator Ben Baker, are killed by gangs while doing missionary work in Haiti during the ongoing crisis in the country.
Families affected by the Uvalde school shooting file a lawsuit against Daniel Defense and Activision Blizzard for creating the DDM4 V7 gun and promoting the weapon through the games in the Call of Duty franchise. They also file a lawsuit against Meta Platforms's social media site Instagram, a product used by the gunman.
2024 May 25 – Anora, directed by Sean Baker, wins the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival, the first American film to do so since The Tree of Life in 2011.
2024 May 26 – 2024 Indianapolis 500: In auto racing, Josef Newgarden wins the Indianapolis 500 for the second consecutive year, becoming the first driver to do so since Hélio Castroneves in 2002.
2024 May 28 Humanitarian aid during the Israel–Hamas war: The U.S. removes the Gaza floating pier from the Gaza Strip for repair after its flotilla was damaged in bad weather.
One person is killed and seven others are injured in a natural gas explosion at an apartment building in Youngstown, Ohio.
2024 May 29 – Air Products announced plans to invest $15 billion to build a network of commercial-scale multi-modal hydrogen refueling stations connecting Northern and Southern California.
2024 May 30 The Department of Labor files a lawsuit against Hyundai Motors over illegal use of child labor in the company's Alabama factory.
Trump is found guilty of 34 counts of falsifying business records in his New York hush money trial, making him the first president to be ever convicted of a felony.
OpenAI removes online influence operations based in Russia, China, Iran, and Israel, due to the usage of AI to generate propaganda and fake content.
2020–2024 H5N1 outbreak: A third human case of H5N1 bird flu is found in a dairy worker in Michigan.
The US and UK navies strike thirteen Houthi locations across Yemen, damaging underground facilities and vessels, killing at least two people and wounding ten.
A Minneapolis police officer and a civilian are killed and another police officer and three other people are wounded in a mass shooting. The shooter was also killed.
2024 June 1–29 – The 2024 ICC Men's T20 World Cup is co-hosted by the West Indies and the United States.
2024 June 1 – Ticketmaster and parent company Live Nation submit a SEC filing acknowledging a data breach of customer information potentially affecting 560 million users. Banco Santander and cloud provider Snowflake Inc. are also believed to have been affected by the same data breach.
2024 June 3 – The value of GameStop shares increases by 21% after Keith Gill posts a $116 million investment on Reddit.
2024 June 4 – Biden enacts an executive order to temporarily suspend asylum claims processing at the Mexico–United States border when the seven-day average exceeds 2,500.
2024 June 5 Boeing's Starliner capsule launches its first astronaut-crewed flight into space to the International Space Station after several delays at the Cape Canaveral Space Force Station in Florida.
A Syrian man fires several shots at the U.S. Embassy in Beirut, Lebanon, and is fatally shot by security forces.
A panel of the United States Food and Drug Administration rejects MDMA-assisted psychotherapy as a treatment for PTSD.
2024 June 6 The Department of State sanctions several Georgian Dream politicians with travel bans for passing the "Law on Transparency of Foreign Influence", threatening further penalties if Georgia continues "anti-democratic activity".
SpaceX launches Starship's Integrated Flight Test 4, successfully guiding both the Super Heavy booster and Starship upper stage to soft water landings in the Gulf of Mexico and the Indian Ocean, respectively.
2024 June 7 – The Biden administration passes new federal rules that mandate new vehicles sold in the U.S. have to increase fuel economy in automobiles by 2% per year for 2027 to 2031 for passenger cars and 2029 to 2031 for SUVs and light trucks.
2024 June 10 – After 17 years of litigation, Chiquita Brands International is found liable by a federal jury of financing the far-right paramilitary death squad United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia in the Antioquia and Magdalena Departments of Colombia.
2024 June 11 – Hunter Biden is convicted of three felony counts of possession of a firearm while under the influence of narcotics.
2024 June 12 Coach USA, a holding company for many bus services including Megabus, files Chapter 11 bankruptcy and seeks to sell its assets to shed $197.8 million of debt.
The National Weather Service issues a rare flash flood emergency in southern Florida for life-threatening flooding conditions only expected once every 500 to 1,000 years.
Attorney General Merrick Garland is found in contempt by the House .
The Oklahoma Supreme Court dismisses a lawsuit by the last survivors of the 1921 Tulsa race massacre who were seeking reparations.
2024 June 13 Dozens of hikers are afflicted with an unknown illness during hiking trips near Grand Canyon National Park.
In FDA v. Alliance for Hippocratic Medicine, the Supreme Court rules against efforts to restrict access to abortion pill mifepristone, due to a lack of standing by the plaintiffs.
2024 June 14 – A bankruptcy judge in Houston approves a supplication to liquidate the personal assets of Alex Jones, but rejects the same supplication to liquidate the business assets of InfoWars—a highly prolific fake news website owned and operated by the far-right conspiracy theorist.
2024 June 15 – Nine people are injured, including two young children, in a shooting at a splash pad in the Detroit suburb of Rochester Hills.
2024 June 16 2024 California wildfires: Around 1,200 people are evacuated from the Hungry Valley area near Los Angeles, California, as the Post Fire spreads through the dry mountains near Interstate 5.
The Birmingham Stallions defeat the San Antonio Brahmas to win the inaugural UFL championship. Stallions quarterback Adrian Martinez is named Most Valuable Player.
2024 June 17 In the 2024 NBA Finals, the Boston Celtics defeat the Dallas Mavericks in five games, winning their 18th overall NBA championship. The Celtics surpass the Los Angeles Lakers to become the team with the most NBA championships.
Federal judge Robert S. Lasnik orders BNSF Railway to pay the Swinomish Tribe in Washington state $400 million after the company intentionally trespassed and repeatedly ran 100-car trains carrying crude oil across the tribe's reservation.
77th Tony Awards: At the 2024 Tony Awards, Stereophonic wins Best Play and The Outsiders wins Best Musical.
Maryland governor Wes Moore pardons over 175,000 people with low-level marijuana convictions.
The FTC sues Adobe Inc., accusing it of illegally hiding termination fees for its Creative Cloud software subscriptions which includes Adobe Photoshop as well as in subscriptions for Adobe Acrobat.
2024 June 18 EV startup Fisker files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy and begins selling its assets.
Nvidia surpasses Microsoft as the world's most valuable publicly-traded company after its market cap exceeds $3.34 trillion.
The Department of Agriculture announces a temporary suspension on imports of mangoes and avocados from Michoacán, Mexico, after an incident that reportedly caused security concerns for safety inspectors.
Regan Smith breaks the 100 metres backstroke world record at the U.S. Olympic Swimming Trials in Indianapolis, Indiana.
2024 New Mexico wildfires: At least one person dies, over 500 structures are damaged or destroyed, and several thousand people are forced to evacuate from Ruidoso, New Mexico, after the South Fork Fire burns over 15,000 acres of land.
2024 June 17–21 – The Northeast and Midwest experience heatwaves in which heat indexes reach 105 °F (41 °C).
2024 June 19 Louisiana Governor Jeff Landry signs a bill that makes it the first state to mandate that the Ten Commandments be displayed in every public school classroom.
2024 Atlantic hurricane season: Tropical Storm Alberto forms in the Gulf of Mexico, the first storm of the 2024 Atlantic hurricane season.
2024 June 20–July 14 – The 2024 Copa América is hosted by the United States.
2024 June 20 – Researchers announce the discovery of Lokiceratops rangiformis, a dinosaur species named after the Norse god Loki, in the Judith River Formation in Montana. The findings are published in the journal PeerJ.
2024 June 21 Four people are killed and nine are injured in a mass shooting at a grocery store in Fordyce, Arkansas.
2024 North America heat waves: At least six people die due to heat-related illness in the Phoenix metropolitan area in Arizona, as temperatures reach 115 °F (46 °C).
2024 June 22 – A University of Illinois team led by Joshua Wurman and Karen Kosiba confirms mobile radar measurements of between 309 mph (497 km/h) and 318 mph (512 km/h) in the tornado that struck Greenfield, Iowa on May 21. This is the first unambiguous radar confirmation of tornado winds over 300 mph (480 km/h).
2024 June 24 WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange enters a plea deal with the U.S. Justice Department, in which he will be found guilty on one federal charge in exchange for his release back to Australia. He is freed the next day.
The Florida Panthers win the 2024 Stanley Cup Finals, beating the Edmonton Oilers in seven games, making it their first championship in franchise history. The win comes after losing the previous year's Stanley Cup Finals against the Vegas Golden Knights. The Panthers also avoid becoming the fifth team in National Hockey League history to lose a series despite having a 3-0 series lead, and the second to do so in the Stanley Cup Finals since the 1941–42 Detroit Red Wings.
Novo Nordisk announced plans to build a $4.1 billion facility in North Carolina, as demand for its weight-loss drugs has increased.
2024 June 26 The 2024 NBA draft is held at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, with the Atlanta Hawks selecting Zaccharie Risacher with the first overall pick.
Biden pardons thousands of former servicemembers who were formerly convicted of a now-repealed military ban on consensual homosexual sex.
2024 June 27 The National Transportation Safety Board announces sanctions against Boeing after the NTSB investigation into the Alaska Airlines Flight 1282 door plug accident, where Boeing allegedly released information that the NTSB did not verify.
The Department of Justice charges 193 people, including 76 medical professionals, with participating in healthcare fraud schemes worth $2.75 billion, including unlawful distribution of Adderall and drug addiction treatments.
A federal jury rules that the NFL violated anti-trust laws by distributing out of market games through the premium Sunday Ticket package, awarding damages which accumulate to $4.7 billion between residential and commercial subscribers.
The first 2024 presidential debate between President Joe Biden and former President Donald Trump is broadcast by CNN in Atlanta.
The Supreme Court issues a ruling in Moyle v. United States, dismissing the case and reinstating the ability to perform exceptional emergency abortion care in Idaho, where a formal ban on abortion is in place.
2024 June 28 The Supreme Court issues a 6–3 decision in Loper Bright Enterprises v. Raimondo which overrules precedent set in the 1984 case Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc. reducing the power of federal agencies.
Following his debate performance, concerns about Biden's age and health are raised. In addition to the debate, Biden's campaign team is accused of withholding information about his condition to Democratic leaders. In the aftermath of the debate, multiple Democrats including current and former members of Congress, statewide officials, journalists, donors, and celebrities called for Biden to suspend his campaign for president, citing concerns about his cognitive ability. Biden suspended his campaign three weeks later.
2024 June 29 – The Biden administration expands its Temporary Protected Status program to 309,000 Haitians in the country to February 2026, offering them deportation relief and work permits.
2024 June 30 – Inside Out 2 surpasses $1 billion in worldwide box office earnings in less than three weeks, the fastest of any animated film in history.
2024 July 1 – In Trump v. United States, the Supreme Court rules in a 6–3 decision that former presidents are entitled to absolute immunity from prosecution for official acts that rely on core constitutional powers, taken while in office, presumed immunity for other official acts, and no immunity for unofficial acts.
2024 July 2 The Department of Homeland Security deports 116 migrants back to China to deter illegal immigration across the Mexican border, representing the nation's first "large charter flight" deportation in the past five years.
Rudy Giuliani is disbarred in the state of New York for his efforts in attempting to overturn the 2020 United States presidential election.
Panama and the US sign a deal to reduce the flow of illegal immigration to the southern United States border through the Darién Gap, with the US covering the costs of repatriating migrants who enter Panama illegally.
A dozen resigned United States government officials release a joint statement denouncing Biden and his administration for its "undeniable complicity" in war crimes against Palestinian civilians by violating federal law to continue sending Israel weapons.
2024 July 3 At least 26,000 people are forced to evacuate amidst dozens of large wildfires in Northern California.
The EPA fines General Motors $145.8 million for excess emissions found in 5.9 million GM vehicles.
2024 July 4 Hudson's Bay Company, the parent company of Saks Fifth Avenue, completes a merger and purchases luxury department stores Neiman Marcus and Bergdorf Goodman for $2.65 billion.
2024 July 6 – 2024 North America heat waves: Maricopa County investigates over 160 suspected heat-related deaths related to ongoing heat waves across Arizona, California, and Oregon.
2024 July 7 Skydance Media and Paramount Global announced a definitive agreement to merge in a deal valued at $8 billion.
Four volunteer NASA crew members finish the first 378-day Crew Health and Performance Exploration Analog mission to simulate living on Mars at the Johnson Space Center in Houston.
2024 July 7–11 – Hurricane Beryl makes landfall in Texas, causing at least $6 billion (2024 USD) in damage to the state, before continuing across the central United States, where it produced a large and significant tornado outbreak consisting of 68 tornadoes. At least 48 deaths occurred in the United States as a result of Beryl.
2024 July 8 – Boeing agrees to plead guilty to a criminal fraud conspiracy charge to avoid going on trial on charges related to two fatal crashes involving its 737 MAX aircraft in 2018 and 2019.
2024 July 9 The 75th NATO summit is held in Washington, D.C.
The Key Largo tree cactus (Pilosocereus millspaughii) is declared locally extinct in Florida as the first US extinction event due to sea level rise.
Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines accuses the Iranian government of using social media to covertly encourage and finance pro-Palestinian campus protests, to deepen American political divisions and increase distrust in democratic institutions.
2024 July 12 – Alec Baldwin's manslaughter charges arising from the Rust shooting incident are dismissed due to a Brady violation.
2024 July 13 – Trump is shot in an assassination attempt at a campaign rally in Butler, Pennsylvania, receiving minor injuries. The Butler County District Attorney reports that the suspect was shot dead and that a member of the audience was killed in the shooting. Two other attendees were injured.
2024 July 13–16 – An intense sequence of severe weather outbreaks affected much of the Midwestern and Northeastern United States, producing two significant derechoes that each had wind gusts exceeding 100 mph (160 km/h), as well as multiple tornado outbreaks that produced a combined 90 tornadoes.
2024 July 15 Federal judge Aileen Cannon dismisses Trump's classified documents case.
The 2024 Republican National Convention was held at the Fiserv Forum in Milwaukee until 2024 July 18. Trump chose Senator JD Vance from Ohio as his running-mate on the first day.
2024 July 16 – Democratic Senator Bob Menendez from New Jersey is convicted on all counts, including bribery, by a jury in a federal corruption trial.
2024 July 17 VF Corporation sells Supreme to the French-Italian eyewear conglomerate EssilorLuxottica for $1.5 billion USD.
President Biden tests positive for COVID-19 and goes into self-isolation.
2024 July 18 – Darden Restaurants announces it will acquire Chuy's for $605 million.
2024 July 19 – CrowdStrike launches a faulty software update which causes IT systems worldwide to go down, with the worst impacts affecting airlines.
2024 July 21 President Biden announces he will withdraw from the 2024 presidential election.
Vice President Kamala Harris launches her campaign for president, receiving Biden's support and becoming the presumptive nominee for the Democratic Party the next day.
2024 July 23 Secret Service director Kimberly Cheatle resigns following widespread criticism of her department's actions during the attempted assassination of Donald Trump.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu visits the United States and gives a speech before the U.S. Congress. Boycotts and protests against his visit occur due to the ongoing Israel–Hamas war.
2024 July 25 – Ismael "El Mayo" Zambada, leader of Mexico's Sinaloa cartel, is arrested by US federal agents in El Paso, Texas.
2024 July 26 – The 2024 SAG-AFTRA video game strike starts.
2024 July 30 – In Florida v. Benefield, popularly known as the Black Swan case, the jury found Ashley Benefield guilty of the manslaughter of her husband, Douglas "Doug" Benefield.
August 1 2024 American–Russian prisoner exchange: Twenty-six individuals are released from Ankara Esenboğa Airport in the largest prisoner exchange between the United States and Russia since the Cold War.
The Utah Supreme Court rules that the state's ban on abortion that has been blocked since June 2022 should continue to be blocked.
The Biden administration announces its recognition of opposition candidate Edmundo González Urrutia of the Democratic Unitary Platform as the legitimate winner of the 2024 Venezuelan presidential election instead of President Nicolás Maduro of the United Socialist Party of Venezuela.
2024 August 2 – In United States v. Khalid Sheikh Mohamm, Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin revokes a plea deal with three men who are accused of plotting the September 11 attacks, effectively reinstating it as a death penalty case.
2024 August 3–10 – Hurricane Debby makes landfall in Florida before moving across and affecting the East Coast of the United States. In total, Debby killed 10 people and caused $7 billion in damage.
2024 August 6 The FBI announces that they have launched an investigation into Tennessee representative Andy Ogles as a result of allegedly fraudulent campaign spending. A search warrant was issued on 2024 August 2, and his cell phone had been seized.
A wrongful death lawsuit is filed in King County, Washington for $50 million by the family of French deep sea explorer Paul-Henri Nargeolet, who perished in the Titan submersible implosion while diving to the wreck of the Titanic during the previous calendar year.
Recreational cannabis sales begin in Ohio.
2024 August 8 – Utah executes convicted murderer and rapist Taberon Honie, the state's first execution since 2010.
2024 August 15 – Five people are charged in relation to the death of Friends star Matthew Perry.
2024 August 19 – Former representative George Santos pleads guilty to identity theft and wire fraud.
2024 August 19–22 – The 2024 Democratic National Convention takes place at the United Center in Chicago, where Kamala Harris and Tim Walz are officially nominated as the party's choice for President and Vice President, respectively, in the upcoming election in November.
2024 August 20 Federal judge Charles Ralph Simpson III dismisses two felony charges against the two police officers who were involved in the killing of Breonna Taylor, determining that her boyfriend was ultimately responsible for her death by firing at the two law enforcement officials and, thus, prompting them to retaliate.
Federal judge Leonie Brinkema rules that people who are positive for HIV cannot be barred from enlisting the United States Armed Forces.
2024 August 23 – Robert F. Kennedy Jr. suspends his campaign for the presidency and endorses Donald Trump.
2024 August 24 – The Massachusetts Department of Public Health places the towns of Douglas, Oxford, Plymouth, Sutton, and Webster on high alert after a patient is diagnosed with mosquito-vectored eastern equine encephalitis in the state's first case since the 2019–2020 outbreak.
2024 August 27 A jury in a Los Angeles federal court finds disbarred attorney Thomas Girardi guilty of four counts of wire fraud after he was accused of stealing $15 million in settlement funds from his clients.
Special Counsel Jack Smith issues revised charges against former President Donald Trump for his alleged attempts to interfere in the 2020 election.
2024 August 29 – The US Army issues a rebuke of Donald Trump's presidential campaign over an incident at Arlington National Cemetery, in which a federal employee was "abruptly pushed aside" and Trump posed for a photo opportunity at soldiers' gravestones.
2024 August 30 The Michigan Supreme Court rules that businesses cannot get state compensation over pandemic closures.
The Maryland Supreme Court rules that, after being vacated in 2022, Adnan Masud Syed's convictions and sentences should be reinstated due to procedural errors.
2024 August 31 – The body of American-Israeli citizen Hersh Goldberg-Polin is recovered from the Rafah tunnels. Goldberg-Polin had been kidnapped from the Re'im music festival on October 7, 2023 and was held by Hamas for almost a year until his execution one to two days before his body was found.
2024 September 2 2024 Chicago train shooting: Four homeless people are randomly killed during a mass shooting on a CTA train in suburban Chicago.
The US seizes a plane used by Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro, and flies it from the Dominican Republic to Florida.
2024 September 4 Apalachee High School shooting: Four people are killed and nine are injured during a mass shooting at Apalachee High School near Winder, Georgia.
A federal indictment alleges that Tennessee-based company Tenet Media, whose employees have included right-wing influencers Tim Pool and Dave Rubin, has functioned as a Russian government-backed disinformation campaign.
2024 September 5 Hunter Biden enters an Alford plea to nine federal counts including tax evasion and filing false tax returns.
The US signs a treaty with the European Union, the United Kingdom and seven other countries which is the first in history on the use of artificial intelligence systems.
2024 September 6 – Ayşenur Ezgi Eygi, a Turkish-American International Solidarity Movement activist, is killed while participating in a protest against the IDF near Nablus.
2024 September 7 – Interstate 75 Kentucky shooting: Five people are injured when a man opens fire at passing cars on Interstate 75 near London, Kentucky.
2024 September 9–12 – Hurricane Francine makes landfall in Louisiana and causes flooding across the Gulf Coast of the United States, causing $1.5 billion in damage.
2024 September 10 Trump and Harris debate for the first time, hosted by ABC News at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia.
A jury finds Shawn Laval Smith guilty for the murder of Brianna Kupfer, in Los Angeles, California.
2024 September 12 – The first commercial spacewalk is conducted by entrepreneur Jared Isaacman as part of the Polaris Dawn mission, which also includes the highest altitude orbit by a human crew since the Apollo program.
2024 September 14 – Arizona governor Katie Hobbs signs a bill which repeals the state's 1864 ban on abortion.
2024 September 15 – Attempted assassination of Donald Trump in Florida: An assassination attempt against Trump takes place at his West Palm Beach Golf Club. No one is injured and the suspect, Ryan Wesley Routh, is caught before firing a shot.
2024 September 16 – Sean "P. Diddy" Combs is arrested in Manhattan and charged with racketeering, sex trafficking, and transportation to engage in prostitution.
2024 September 17 A three-judge panel on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit upholds the conviction of Ghislaine Maxwell for sex trafficking of underage girls in relation to Jeffrey Epstein.
California governor Gavin Newsom signs a bill which prohibits the replacement of actors with artificial intelligence under state law.
2024 September 18 Food storage container firm Tupperware files for bankruptcy, amid declining sales.
Kentucky governor Andy Beshear issues an executive order to ban the practice of conversion therapy in the state.
2024 September 19 – 2024 Major League Baseball season: Shohei Ohtani of the Los Angeles Dodgers becomes the first MLB player in history to join the 50–50 club, stealing over 50 bases and hitting over 50 home runs in a single season.
2024 September 20 – South Carolina carries out its first execution since 2011 with convicted murderer Freddie Eugene Owens.
2024 September 21 – September 2024 Birmingham shooting: Four people are killed and 17 are injured in a mass shooting in Birmingham, Alabama.
2024 September 22 – 2024 Major League Baseball season: The Chicago White Sox become the first American League team to reach 120 losses in a season and second in MLB history after the National League's 1962 New York Mets.
2024 September 24 Former Alameda Research CEO Caroline Ellison is sentenced to 24 months in jail for fraud charges.
Marcellus Williams is executed in Missouri for the 1998 murder of Felicia Gayle, despite calls from the victim's family and the prosecutor to spare his life.
2024 September 25 – New York City mayor Eric Adams is indicted following federal corruption investigations.
2024 September 26 – The Nevada Supreme Court orders the dismissal of the sex crime trial against Nathan Chasing Horse.
2024 September 27–30 – Hurricane Helene kills at least  215 and leaves 685  people missing in the southeast.
2024 September 27 – 2024 September sees the greatest number of inmates executed at five, within a one-week span since July 2003 with the execution of Alan Eugene Miller.
2024 October 1 Jimmy Carter turns 100 years old, making him the first U.S. president to become a centenarian.
The vice presidential candidates, Minnesota Governor Tim Walz and Ohio Senator JD Vance, debate in New York City, hosted by CBS News.
2024 United States port strike: Dockworkers at 36 ports begin three days of strike action, due to disagreements over compensation and the use of automation.
California officially bans fracking.
2024 October 2 – A new court filing by Special Counsel Jack Smith alleges that Donald Trump engaged in a "private criminal effort" to overturn the 2020 election results, and therefore should not be protected by the Supreme Court's ruling of immunity from prosecution for "official" acts conducted while in office.
2024 October 3 – Tina Peters, a former County Clerk of Mesa County, Colorado, becomes the first election official in the U.S. convicted of criminal charges related to 'stolen election' conspiracy theories surrounding the 2020 United States presidential election. She is sentenced to nine years in prison.
2024 October 8 The Environmental Protection Agency sets a 10-year deadline to replace all lead water pipes in the United States.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation announces the arrest of an Afghan national in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, for allegedly plotting an ISIS-related attack on Election Day in November.
2024 October 8–11 – Hurricane Milton makes landfall in Florida, where 32 people were killed and 3.4 million people were left without power. Between October 8–9, 44 tornadoes touched down across Florida, including three EF3 tornadoes.
2024 October 10 – The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network levies a $3 billion fine against TD Bank for chronic violations of anti–money laundering laws.
2024 October 13 – SpaceX achieves the first successful return and capture of a Super Heavy booster from Starship, the biggest and most powerful rocket ever to fly.
2024 October 20 – Five new civil lawsuits are filed against Sean "Diddy" Combs in a federal court in New York, accusing the rapper of sexual assault and rape.
2024 October 21 – The Central Park Five file a lawsuit against Donald Trump in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania over claims that he made in the second presidential debate on September 10.
2024 October 22 – 2024 McDonald's E. coli outbreak: The CDC reports 75 people have fallen ill and one person has died after consuming McDonald's quarter pounders tainted with E. Coli. Fifteen more people had fallen ill by 2024 October 31.
2024 October 23 – The Transportation Department fines American Airlines $50 million for violations of disability laws.
2024 October 27 – Presidential candidate Donald Trump hosts a campaign rally at Madison Square Garden in New York City. The event is widely criticized for its use of racist and misogynistic language.
2024 October 28 – Actor Jay Johnston is sentenced to one year and one day in prison for his actions during the January 6 United States Capitol attack.
2024 October 30 – 2024 Major League Baseball season: The Los Angeles Dodgers win their eighth World Series title, defeating the New York Yankees four games to one.
2024 November 1 – South Carolina executes convicted murderer Richard Bernard Moore, despite pleas from the judge, jury, pastors, prison staff, and his relatives to spare his life.
2024 November 2 – Casual dining restaurant chain TGI Fridays files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.
2024 November 3 – Taylor Swift concludes The Eras Tour in the United States at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis, the highest-grossing concert tour of all time.
2024 November 5 Donald Trump and running mate JD Vance of the Republican Party defeat Kamala Harris and running mate Tim Walz of the Democratic Party in the 2024 United States presidential election. Trump becomes the second president elected to non-consecutive terms after Grover Cleveland,  and the first convicted felon, and the oldest man elected president.
The United States and Somalia reach an agreement, involving the US writing off over $1 billion of Somalia debt.
2024 November 6 – Biden announces the expedited granting of over US$6 billion in military aid to Ukraine.
2024 November 8 –The Department of Justice charges Iranian national Farhad Shakeri with an Iranian plot to attempt to assassinate Donald Trump.
2024 November 10 One person is killed and 16 others are injured in a school shooting during a homecoming weekend party at Tuskegee University.
In motorsports, Joey Logano of Team Penske wins the 2024 NASCAR Cup Series, his third win.
2024 November 11 – Maryland Governor Wes Moore posthumously commemorates abolitionist Harriet Tubman as a one-star general in the Maryland National Guard, celebrating her for Veterans Day.
2024 November 12 Second cabinet of Donald Trump: Trump selects South Dakota Governor Kristi Noem as his Secretary of Homeland Security, Senator Marco Rubio as his Secretary of State, and Fox News host and Army veteran Pete Hegseth as his Secretary of Defense.
Haitian crisis: The Federal Aviation Administration issues a temporary 30-day ground on all U.S. airlines from flying to Haiti after gangs shot at a Spirit Airlines aircraft that was attempting to land at Toussaint Louverture International Airport in Port-au-Prince. The airport is also closed indefinitely in response to the shooting.
Trump announces he plans to create the Department of Government Efficiency and selects businessmen Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy to lead it.
2024 November 13 – Trump picks Matt Gaetz as his Attorney General, however Gaetz withdrew on 2024 November 21 due to ongoing Congressional investigations against him.
2024 November 14 Satirical news site The Onion purchases Alex Jones' InfoWars at a bankruptcy auction.
Trump nominates environmental attorney Robert F. Kennedy Jr. as his Secretary of Health and Human Services, North Dakota Governor Doug Burgum as his Secretary of the Interior, and former Congressman Doug Collins as his Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
The Kingda Ka roller coaster at Six Flags Great Adventure, the world's tallest roller coaster, is retired.
2024 November 15 General Motors lays off 1,000 employees and closes several facilities.
Three daughters of civil rights activist Malcolm X file a $100 million wrongful death lawsuit against the CIA, the FBI, and the New York Police Department for their alleged roles in the assassination of Malcolm X.
Trump names Karoline Leavitt as the White House Press Secretary for his second term in office, which will make her the youngest ever person to serve in the role at 27 years old.
The Tyson v. Paul fight is live streamed on Netflix and takes place at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas between Jake Paul and Mike Tyson. Paul was declared the winner by unanimous decision, and Netflix claims that 108 million people viewed the event on its platform.
2024 November 16 Trump picks Liberty Energy CEO Chris Wright as his Secretary of Energy.
The first case of Clade Ib mpox, a more spreadable variant linked to the outbreak in Africa, is detected in California.
2024 November 17 – Biden lifts restrictions on the Ukrainian use of US weapons for deep attacks inside of Russia, with Ukraine planning out long-distance attacks in the coming days. The first of these instances is two days later on 2024 November 19, where Ukraine launches ATACMS long-ranged missiles into Russia.
2024 November 18 Spirit Airlines files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
Trump picks Fox News host and former congressman Sean Duffy as his Secretary of Transportation.
2024 November 20 Jose Ibarra is found guilty of murdering Augusta university nursing student Laken Riley. He is sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole.
Trump picks former World Wrestling Entertainment CEO Linda McMahon as his Secretary of Education.
Gautam Adani, an Indian billionaire and the chairman of the Adani Group, was indicted by the District Court for the Eastern District of New York, along with seven other Adani executives, on charges of bribery.
2024 November 21 After Matt Gaetz withdraws his nomination for the position, Trump picks former Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi as his Attorney General.
Jussie Smollett hate crime hoax: The Supreme Court of Illinois vacates the conviction and sentence of Jussie Smollett for his staging of a hate crime against himself due to a violation of his due process rights.
2024 November 22 – Trump picks hedge fund investor and former Yale professor Scott Bessent as his Secretary of the Treasury, congresswoman Lori Chavez-DeRemer as his Secretary of Labor, and former Texas state representative and retired NFL player Scott Turner as his Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
2024 November 23 – Trump picks America First Policy Institute CEO Brooke Rollins as his Secretary of Agriculture.
2024 November 25 – Jack Smith dismisses his 2020 election interference case against Trump.
2024 November 27 – The United States helps to mediate the ceasefire agreement between Israel and Lebanon since the conflict escalated in October.
2024 November 29 – Three people are wounded in a shooting on Black Friday at the Park Plaza Mall in Little Rock, Arkansas.
2024 December 1 – President Biden issues a pardon for his son, Hunter Biden, despite previously pledging against doing so.
2024 December 2 Elon Musk loses his bid to reinstate a pay package to the tune of $56 billion.
Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez becomes the first person to reach a million followers on Bluesky.
2024 December 4 – Brian Thompson, the CEO of insurance company UnitedHealthcare, is fatally shot outside the New York Hilton Midtown, in what police call a "targeted attack".
2024 December 5 – A magnitude 7.1 earthquake occurs off the coast of California, being felt hundreds of miles away. Tsunami and earthquake warnings are sent out across California, Oregon, and Washington.
2024 December 6 – A federal appeals court, in a defeat to TikTok and parent company ByteDance, upholds the Protecting Americans from Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act, enabling the law, which would ban the social media platform from the US on January 19, 2025, if the platform was not sold off to an American-owned company, to take effect.
2024 December 7 – MLS Cup 2024: The LA Galaxy defeat the New York Red Bulls 2–1 to win their sixth MLS Cup.
2024 December 8 – In baseball, the New York Mets sign Dominican professional baseball outfielder Juan Soto to a $765 million, 15-year contract, the largest contract in sports history.
2024 December 9 Police arrest 26-year-old Luigi Mangione in connection with the fatal shooting of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson in New York on 2024 December 4.
A jury acquits Daniel Penny of criminally negligent homicide and deadlocks on manslaughter over his killing of Jordan Neely in May 2023.
2024 December 9–10 – The US Navy is attacked in the Gulf of Aden by the Yemen-based Houthis, marking the most recent attack on the United States.
2024 December 10 – Federal bankruptcy judge Christopher Lopez rejects the sale of Alex Jones' InfoWars to satirical news platform The Onion in a dispute over the bidding process.
2024 December 11 Albertsons backs out of a $24.6 billion merger deal with Kroger and files a lawsuit against them that includes a $600 million termination fee.
Several drones of unknown operators are spotted over New Jersey, with some going over military areas.
2024 December 12 – President Biden commutes the sentences of roughly 1,500 people who were released from prison and placed in home confinement during the coronavirus pandemic and pardons 39 Americans convicted of non-violent crimes, the largest single-day act of clemency in US history. The clemency drew outrage for commuting the sentences of Mark Ciavarella and Michael Conahan for their role in the kids for cash scandal.
2024 December 13 The U.S. military evacuates Travis Timmerman out of Syria after Timmerman had previously been reported missing in the country.
McKinsey & Company agrees to pay $650 million and enter a deferred prosecution agreement with the Department of Justice to resolve criminal charges related to its advisory work for Purdue Pharma on increasing OxyContin sales, including conspiracy to misbrand a drug and obstruction of justice.
2024 December 16 Two people are killed and six others are injured in a mass shooting at the Abundant Life Christian School in Madison, Wisconsin. The perpetrator, a 15-year-old student at the school, is found dead at the scene.
SoftBank Group announces a $100 billion investment in the United States, expected to create 100,000 new jobs by 2029, primarily in technology-related sectors such as artificial intelligence.
2024 December 18 Indiana conducts its first execution since 2009 with convicted murderer Joseph Edward Corcoran.
The CDC confirms the first severe case of H5N1 bird flu in a human linked to exposure to a backyard flock.
A Union Pacific train derails and strikes multiple vehicles and a building in Pecos, Texas. Two people are killed and three are injured.
2024 December 23 President Joe Biden commutes the sentences of 37 of the 40 individuals on federal death row to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole. The exceptions are Dylann Roof, Robert Bowers, and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who received death sentences for terrorism or hate-motivated mass murder-related crimes, as well as all four prisoners on U.S. military death row.
A House ethics report finds "substantial evidence" that Matt Gaetz paid for sex with a 17-year-old girl and used illicit drugs while in office.
2024 December 24 President Joe Biden signs a bill making the bald eagle the official national bird of the United States.
American Airlines grounds all U.S. flights for several hours due to a technical issue.
2024 December 28 – At least fifteen people, including three firefighters, are injured when a train collides with a fire truck in Delray Beach, Florida.
2024 December 29 – Former President Jimmy Carter dies at age 100 in his hometown of Plains, Georgia.
2024 December 30 – The Treasury reports a "major incident" in which Chinese state-sponsored hackers broke into its systems earlier in the month and had access to employee workstations and some unclassified documents.
Deaths
References
External links
 Media related to 2024 in the United States at Wikimedia Commons
The following is a list of events of the year 2025 in the United States, as well as predicted and scheduled events that have not yet occurred. The start of the year has been dominated by the January 2025 Southern California wildfires, which have devastated Greater Los Angeles. Following his election victory in November, Donald Trump was inaugurated and began his second, non-consecutive term on January 20. The beginning of his term saw him extensively use executive orders and give increased authority to Elon Musk through the Department of Government Efficiency, leading to mass layoffs of the federal workforce and attempts to dismantle agencies such as USAID. These policies have drawn dozens of lawsuits that have challenged their legality.
Incumbents
Federal government
President:
Joe Biden (D-Delaware) (until January 20)
Donald Trump (R-Florida) (since January 20)
Vice President:
Kamala Harris (D-California) (until January 20)
JD Vance (R-Ohio) (since January 20)
Chief Justice: John Roberts (Maryland)
Speaker of the House of Representatives: Mike Johnson (R-Louisiana)
Senate Majority Leader:
Chuck Schumer (D-New York) (until January 3)
John Thune (R-South Dakota) (since January 3)
Congress: 118th (until January 3), 119th (since January 3)
Elections
Elections will be held on November 4 of this year. The off-year election includes gubernatorial and state legislative elections in a few states, as well as numerous mayoral races, and a variety of other local offices on the ballot.
2025 January 1 New Orleans truck attack: Fourteen people (excluding the perpetrator) are killed and fifty-seven others are injured in a vehicle-ramming attack along Bourbon Street in New Orleans, Louisiana. The suspect is killed in the attack.
Las Vegas Cybertruck explosion: A Tesla Cybertruck catches on fire and explodes outside Trump International Hotel Las Vegas in Paradise, Nevada, killing one person and injuring seven others.
Eleven people are wounded in a shooting at a memorial outside a nightclub in Jamaica, Queens, New York City, New York.
Mexico's Tax Administration Service implements new tariffs, including a 19% duty on goods from countries without international trade agreements with Mexico and a 17% duty on goods from Canada and the United States under certain value thresholds.
Honduran President Xiomara Castro warns that she might remove all US military bases from Honduras and seek to cancel the military cooperation with the United States if President-elect Donald Trump fulfills his threat to order mass deportations of Hondurans when he takes office on 2025 January 20.
Public Domain Day: Works published in 1929, including Popeye and Tintin, enter the public domain in the United States.
2025 January 2 The United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit rules in Ohio Telecom Association v. FCC that the Federal Communications Commission cannot enforce net neutrality.
According to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, United States forces are deploying a new convoy to areas controlled by the Syrian Democratic Forces in Kobani, Aleppo Governorate, as part of operations to establish a new US military base in north-eastern Syria. This is denied a day later by the Department of Defense.
2025 January 3 The 119th Congress begins. Vice President Kamala Harris officiates the swearing-in of senators, while representatives vote to re-elect Mike Johnson as speaker of the House.
President Joe Biden blocks the proposed acquisition of U.S. Steel by Nippon Steel.
Surgeon general Vivek Murthy calls for cancer warnings on alcohol.
SpaceX successfully launches the United Arab Emirates Space Agency's communications satellite Thuraya 4-NGS via a Falcon 9 rocket from Cape Canaveral Space Force Station in Florida.
2025 January 5 New York City enacts a congestion charge for vehicles entering Lower and Midtown Manhattan below 60th Street, becoming the first city in the United States to do so. All proceeds go to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which plans to invest in long-term transportation initiatives citywide.
The National Weather Service warns of severe weather disruption as a winter storm emerges in the central United States and begins to move east, bringing heavy snow and freezing temperatures.
The State Department notifies Congress of a planned $8 billion arms sale to Israel consisting of air-to-air and Hellfire missiles, artillery shells, and other ammunitions.
2025 January 6 Due to harsh weather and snowstorms, a water treatment facility malfunctions and floods, causing the entire city of Richmond, Virginia to completely lose access to running water. As a result, several surrounding counties also suffer similar issues.
As one of his final acts, President Biden bans new oil and gas drilling along the majority of American coastlines.
Congress convenes in a joint session for the Electoral College vote count, the final procedure of the 2024 presidential election.
2025 January 7 Los Angeles experiences the most destructive wildfire in its history, fueled by strong winds and prolonged drought conditions. Thousands of structures are destroyed, including most of Sunset Boulevard. Five deaths are reported, while 180,000 people are evacuated, with fires continuing for days.
Hussain Sajwani announces a $20 billion investment in the United States data center industry over the coming years.
Mark Zuckerberg announces that Meta will remove fact-checkers for Facebook, Instagram, and Threads, replacing them with a community-orientated system, similar to Community Notes.
President-elect Donald Trump refuses to rule out using military force to take control of Greenland and the Panama Canal, declaring United States control of both to be "vital to American national security".
Trump's son Donald Trump Jr. makes a personal visit to Greenland weeks after Trump announced that "ownership and control of Greenland is an absolute necessity". In response to the visit, Danish prime minister Mette Frederiksen states that "Greenland belongs to the Greenlanders".
The Treasury imposes sanctions on Hungarian cabinet minister Antal Rogán for alleged corruption, accusing him of using his position to secure financial benefits for himself and political allies.
The United States accuses the Rapid Support Forces of committing genocide in Sudan during the ongoing civil war and imposes sanctions on the group's leader Hemedti.
2025 January 8 – The California wildfires spread to more areas.
2025 January 9 The state funeral of Jimmy Carter is held in Washington, D.C.
The Supreme Court rules that Trump can be sentenced.
The House of Representatives votes 243 to 140 to sanction the ICC for issuing arrest warrants for Benjamin Netanyahu and former Israeli Defense Minister Yoav Gallant.
Senate majority leader John Thune promises swift consideration of the Illegitimate Court Counteraction Act so President-elect Donald Trump can sign it into law shortly after taking office. Under the act, any foreigner who investigates, arrests, detains or prosecutes United States citizens or those of an allied country, including Israel, not under ICC jurisdiction would be sanctioned along with their family members.
2025 January 10 Vice President-elect JD Vance resigns from the United States Senate.
President-elect Donald Trump is sentenced to an "unconditional discharge" for 34 counts of falsifying business records in his New York hush money case.
The United States government imposes a new series of sanctions targeting Russia's energy sector, including the Gazprom Neft and Surgutneftegas oil companies.
United States authorities announce an increased $25 million reward for information leading to the arrest of Venezuelan president Nicolás Maduro.
The Securities and Exchange Commission announces that former WWE CEO Vince McMahon has agreed to pay a $400,000 fine and reimburse $1.3 million to WWE as part of a settlement to drop accounting fraud charges.
2025 California wildfires:
Los Angeles authorities declare a local health emergency due to poor air quality resulting from the ongoing wildfires.
The evacuation area in the Palisades Fire is expanded.
Governor Newsom calls for an independent investigation into how firefighters have struggled with water supplies while tackling the wildfires.
2025 January 11 – Incoming United States Middle East Envoy Steve Witkoff meets with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in an effort to secure a ceasefire deal in Gaza Strip before Donald Trump's inauguration on 2025 January 20.
2025 January 12 Foreign ministers and senior officers of Arab countries, the European Union, United States, United Kingdom and Turkey hold in Riyadh a series of diplomatic meetings focused on Syria.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and outgoing United States President Joe Biden discuss efforts to reach a deal to solve the Israel–Hamas war hostage crisis and a ceasefire to end the war.
2025 January 13 – AccuWeather releases a preliminary estimate of the total physical and economic losses caused by the ongoing wildfires in Southern California of between $250–275 billion, a figure attributed to exceptionally high property values in and near Santa Monica, which would surpass their estimates of the costs of the entire 2020 United States wildfire season as well as Hurricane Helene in 2024.
2025 January 14 Hamas officials say that they have accepted a draft agreement for a potential ceasefire as well as the release of hostages. Mediators in the United States and Qatar also state that this is the closest that both sides have been to a ceasefire agreement so far.
President Biden announces that the United States will remove Cuba from its state sponsors of terrorism list as part of a prisoner release deal.
The Armenian Foreign Minister, Ararat Mirzoyan, and the Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, sign in Washington, D.C. a Strategic Partnership Charter between Armenia and the United States.
2025 January 15 Israel and Hamas reach a diplomatic agreement mediated by Egypt, Qatar, and the United States to initiate a ceasefire and an end to military operations in Gaza, as well as to facilitate the exchange of hostages and prisoners, marking the first major cessation of hostilities since November 2023.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) bans the usage of Red No. 3 artificial food coloring, due to research showing that the food coloring is carcinogenic.
The Yemeni Houthi group claims that it launched a missile attack targeting the USS Harry S. Truman aircraft carrier and accompanying warships of the United States Navy in the Red Sea.
A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket lifts off from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, carrying the American Blue Ghost M1 moon lander from Firefly Aerospace and the Japanese Hakuto-R Mission 2 moon lander from ispace.
2025 January 16 The Treasury Department sanctions the head of the Sudanese Armed Forces, Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, for "destabilizing Sudan and undermining the goal of a democratic transition" to a civilian-led government.
Blue Origin launches its New Glenn rocket for the first time from Cape Canaveral Space Force Station in Florida. The rocket's second stage, carrying a prototype Blue Ring spacecraft, successfully reaches a geocentric orbit, but its reusable first stage is lost during landing.
SpaceX launches its seventh test flight of the Starship launch vehicle, with an improved second stage out of its Starbase launch site in Texas. The company catches the first stage but the second stage breaks up shortly before engine shutdown.
Two homeless people are killed and two others are injured in a mass stabbing attack in Miami. A 30-year-old suspect is arrested.
2025 California wildfires: It is reported that the Eaton Fire, which has burned over 14,000 acres and has killed 17 people, is 65% contained.
2025 January 17 The Supreme Court of the United States upholds the provisions of the Protecting Americans from Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act banning social media platform TikTok unless it is sold by ByteDance.
U.S. President-elect Donald Trump announces that his upcoming second inauguration will be moved indoors at the United States Capitol Rotunda due to cold temperatures, making it the first to be held indoors since the second 'public' inauguration of the 40th U.S. President, Ronald Reagan in 1985.
The Treasury Department sanctions a cybersecurity company and hacker, both with ties to China's Ministry of State Security, for their alleged roles in hacking American telecommunications companies.
2025 January 18 Ahead of Trump's second term, the Women's March hosts protests at Columbus Circle in Washington, D.C. The People's March on Washington is also held on the same day.
The Mega Zeph roller coaster at the former Six Flags New Orleans amusement park catches fire.
In American football, the Washington Commanders (formerly the Redskins) upset the Detroit Lions, 45-31, to reach the NFC Championship game, their first since the 1991 season when they were known as the Redskins.
TikTok goes offline in the United States, hours before a new law banning the platform comes into effect.
2025 January 19 – TikTok, CapCut, Lemon8, and Marvel Snap are banned off of all app stores in the U.S. due to their owner being ByteDance.
2025 January 20 Trump is inaugurated in Washington, D.C. as the 47th president of the United States for a second, non-consecutive term, with JD Vance sworn in as the 50th vice president of the United States.
Trump issues roughly 1,500 pardons and six commutations to people charged in connection to the January 6 United States Capitol attack.
National Action Network founder and civil rights activist Al Sharpton holds a rally on Martin Luther King Jr. Day, the same day as the inauguration, to honor MLK's legacy and protest the second presidency of Trump.
Trump signs an executive order declaring the northernmost portion of the Gulf of Mexico to be the "Gulf of America" and renaming Denali to its 1917–2015 official federal name, Mount McKinley.
The United States Senate unanimously confirms Marco Rubio as Secretary of State, making him the first Cabinet official of Trump's second term to be confirmed by the Senate. Rubio also becomes the first Latino American to serve as Secretary of State.
Trump officially creates the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) led by Elon Musk aimed at cutting spending of the United States government. DOGE is a temporary organization under the United States DOGE Service, not a federal executive department. Within minutes of the announcement, government employee unions, watchdog groups, and public interest organizations sued over this executive order.
Trump signs an executive order to delay enforcement of the law banning TikTok in the United States for 75 days.
Trump signs the Putting America First In International Environmental Agreements executive order directing the United States withdrawal from the Paris Agreement.
Trump signs an executive order directing the United States withdrawal from the World Health Organization.
Trump signs his first executive orders on gender and immigration, and also signs an order ending usage of the CBP One app.
Trump revokes Biden's removal of Cuba from the state sponsors of terrorism list.
Ohio State wins the NCAA CFP National Championship, beating Notre Dame 34–23.
2025 January 21 Multiple brush fires spread by hurricane-force winds erupt in San Diego County, California, prompting evacuation orders.
Much of Canada and the contiguous United States are impacted by a cold wave, killing one person near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Historic snowfall is expected in the Southern United States, and historic blizzard and whiteout conditions are expected on the Gulf Coast.
Two Americans held in Afghanistan are freed in exchange for a Taliban fighter in the United States. The deal is brokered by Qatar and finalized during the final hours of the outgoing Biden administration.
Oracle Corporation, MGX, SoftBank Group, OpenAI, and other partners have announced the launch of The Stargate Project, a joint venture focused on developing AI infrastructure in the United States. The initiative includes a projected $500 billion investment and aims to create 100,000 new jobs in the United States by 2029.
Donald Trump pardons Ross Ulbricht, the creator of the Silk Road. Ulbricht was serving a life sentence for charges including conspiracy to commit money laundering, hacking, and drug trafficking.
2025 January 22 The death toll of a historic winter storm event on the Gulf Coast of the United States rises to nine. 8 in (20 cm) of snow falls at Louis Armstrong New Orleans International Airport in Louisiana, and the statewide snowfall record in Florida is broken as over 5.5 in (14 cm) falls in Molino.
The United States House of Representatives passes the Laken Riley Act, heading to Trump for his signature.
Donald Trump re-designates the Yemeni Houthi movement as a foreign terrorist organization.
A school shooting at Antioch High School in Nashville, Tennessee, kills two students and injures two others.
Daniel Ball, a rioter that took part in the riot at the United States Capitol, is arrested again despite being pardoned by Trump, making him the first rioter with additional legal trouble after the pardon.
The Trump administration imposes an immediate freeze on meetings – such as grant review panels – as well as travel, communications, and hiring at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), impacting $47.4 billion worth of activities.
2025 January 23 A large-scale outage of AI tool ChatGPT is reported.
Trump orders the public release of classified documents relating to the assassinations of John F Kennedy, Robert F Kennedy, and Martin Luther King Jr.
Rep. Andy Ogles of Tennessee files a long-shot resolution which would change the 22nd Amendment to allow Trump to serve a third term.
U.S. District Judge for Washington John C. Coughenour temporarily blocks President Trump's executive order attempting to end birthright citizenship, calling it "blatantly unconstitutional".
The U.S. Department of State bans consular posts from flying any flags other than the U.S. flag as part of the Trump administration targeting several instances during the Biden administration when LGBTQ rainbow flag and Black Lives Matter flags were flown at embassies abroad.
2025 January 24 Saudi Arabia announces that it will invest 600 billion USD in the United States economy.
Mexico denies a request from the United States to allow a military aircraft deporting migrants from the U.S. to land in Mexico.
The State Department freezes nearly all foreign aid programs except military aid to Israel and Egypt and emergency food programs.
Pete Hegseth is confirmed as U.S. Secretary of Defense in a 51–50 vote after Vice President JD Vance casts the tie breaking vote, making him the first Vice President to cast a tiebreaker vote on a Cabinet nominee since Mike Pence did so in 2017 to confirm then-Education Secretary Betsy DeVos.
Spirit Airlines announces a ban on passengers who wear "lewd" clothing or have "offensive" tattoos.
2025 January 26 Colombian President Gustavo Petro blocks two U.S. military aircraft carrying deported Colombians as part of President Donald Trump's immigration crackdown from landing in his country. In response, President Trump enacts a 25% tariff on all goods traded to the U.S. from Colombia, which will be raised to 50% in one week; Colombia accepts the deportation flights a day later.
Secretary of State Marco Rubio announces the release of American citizen Anastasia Nufer from a prison in Belarus.
In soccer, Chelsea Women sign American defender Naomi Girma from San Diego Wave for a world-record fee of US$1.1 million, making her the most expensive woman player and the first million-dollar transfer in women's soccer.
2024–25 NFL playoffs: In American football, the Philadelphia Eagles and Kansas City Chiefs win their respective conference championship games for a Super Bowl rematch of Super Bowl LVII.
2025 January 27 The Nasdaq falls sharply in response to DeepSeek, a Chinese competitor to OpenAI's ChatGPT. Chip giant Nvidia loses $600bn of its value, the biggest drop for a single company in U.S. stock market history.
United States federal government grant pause: The Office of Management and Budget acting director Matthew Vaeth orders federal government agencies to temporarily pause all federal financial assistance programs, with the exception of Medicare and Social Security, that could be implicated by select executive orders from President Trump.
President Trump signs an executive order eliminating "gender radicalism in the military", targeting transgender troops in the military, and another executive order that mandates a process to develop an American Iron Dome.
The Idaho House of Representatives votes for a resolution that calls for the Supreme Court to reconsider its 2015 Obergefell v. Hodges same-sex marriage decision.
2025 January 28 A F-35 fighter jet crashes and explodes at Eielson Air Force Base in Alaska.
United States federal judge Loren AliKhan temporarily blocks President Donald Trump's executive order to pause funding for federal assistance in the country.
The South Dakota Senate narrowly votes for a bill requiring public schools to display the Ten Commandments in every classroom. The bill is similar to a 2024 law passed in Louisiana.
Boom Technology's XB-1 trijet supersonic demonstrator becomes the first privately-funded jet-powered plane to break the sound barrier at Mojave Air and Space Port.
January 29 2025 Potomac River mid-air collision: A PSA Airlines Bombardier CRJ-700 operating as American Eagle Flight 5342 collides with a U.S. Army Sikorsky UH-60 Black Hawk over the Potomac River in Washington, D.C. on approach to Reagan National Airport, killing all passengers on both aircraft and causing a shutdown of flights in and out of the airport.
United States Middle East Envoy Steve Witkoff visits the Gaza Strip and meets with Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu to assure that the ceasefire remains intact.
President Donald Trump signs the Laken Riley Act into law, the first legislation of Trump's second term.
President Donald Trump announces plans to transform the United States detention facility in Guantanamo Bay into a holding center for undocumented immigrants, capable of hosting 30,000.
Former Senator Bob Menendez of New Jersey is sentenced to 11 years in prison, following his conviction on bribery and corruption charges.
2025 January 30 The United States Federal Drug Administration approves Vertex Pharmaceuticals' new Journavx drug, a non-opioid analgesic used to treat acute pain and potentially eliminate the risks of opioid addiction and overdose.
Trump orders the Department of Agriculture to remove any mention of climate change on its websites.
2025 January 31 The Palisades Fire and Eaton Fire, the last two of the January 2025 Southern California wildfires, are contained.
A medical transport jet crashes into a northeastern Philadelphia neighborhood, killing all four passengers and two crew members onboard. Additionally, one person on the ground is killed and 19 injured.
Venezuela frees six American hostages after U.S. Special Presidential Envoy for Special Missions Richard Grenell meets with Venezuelan president Nicolás Maduro.
Representatives of the so-called Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) are granted full access to the federal treasury, allowing Elon Musk and his team to monitor and potentially limit government spending.
2025 February 1 Second Trump tariffs: President Trump signs an executive order imposing a 25% tariff on goods from Canada and Mexico, and a 10% tariffs on goods imported from China. In response, Canada and Mexico respond with a 25% tariff on American goods in their countries, while China vows to take the matter to the World Trade Organization.
President Trump says he has ordered the United States military to carry out airstrikes against Islamic State positions in Somalia. The strikes targeted a series of cave systems used by the terror group.
The Democratic National Committee chairmanship election is held by party voting members at the DNC's Winter Meeting, electing Ken Martin as the next Chair of the Democratic National Committee.
2024–25 NBA season: In basketball, the Dallas Mavericks, Utah Jazz, and Los Angeles Lakers are involved in a trade that sends Luka Dončić to the Lakers for Anthony Davis.
2025 February 2 The 67th Annual Grammy Awards are held at the Crypto.com Arena in Los Angeles, honoring the best in music from September 2023 to 2024 August 2024. "Not Like Us" by Kendrick Lamar wins Record of the Year while Cowboy Carter by Beyoncé wins Album of the Year.
Thousands of demonstrators protest against immigration policies implemented by President Donald Trump in downtown Los Angeles, blocking the Hollywood Freeway.
The Puntland military spokersperson claims that United States airstrikes against ISIL have killed 46 fighters in the Cal Miskaad Mountains, a remote area in northeastern region Bari, Somalia.
Secretary of State Marco Rubio travels to Panama in his first foreign trip in the position and urges Panamanian President José Raúl Mulino to reduce Chinese influence in the Panama Canal. In response, Mulino said that his country won't renew its contracts with China's Belt and Road Initiative when they expire.
In ice hockey, Jonathan Quick becomes the first American-born goalie to reach 400 wins.
2025 February 3 Second Trump tariffs:
Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, and President Donald Trump announce they have agreed to delay 25% of tariffs on Mexico and Canada for a month in exchange for boosting security along their respective borders.
Ontario Premier Doug Ford announces Ontario will end contracts with Department of Government Efficiency leader Elon Musk's Starlink program unless the US lifts tariffs on Canada.
Elon Musk announces that the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) will be shut down and would be merged into the State Department.
President Donald Trump says he is stopping funding to South Africa over a land seizure law.
Salvadoran president Nayib Bukele makes an offer to Secretary of State Marco Rubio to accept convicted "dangerous American criminals" and incarcerate them at the Terrorism Confinement Center in El Salvador in exchange for a fee.
2025 February 4 The United States implements a 10% across-the-board tariff on Chinese products and eliminates the de minimis exemption for exports from China. In response, China imposes retaliatory tariffs on energy products, farm equipment, and automobiles from the United States, effective 2025 February 10, and export controls on critical minerals. It also adds United States based PVH Group and Illumina Inc to its unreliable entities list and launches a probe into technology company Google for alleged anti-trust violations.
The State Department orders the closure of all overseas missions of USAID and recalls thousands of USAID staff to the United States ahead of the agency's shutdown.
President Donald Trump announces that the United States will take control of the Gaza Strip in an agreement with Israel. Trump also says Palestinians will have no choice but to leave the territory and that the United States military will be in charge of Gaza's reconstruction to turn the area into "The Riviera of the Middle East" for "the world's people."
President Donald Trump signs a presidential memorandum reimposing a policy of maximum pressure against Iran.
Second cabinet of Donald Trump: The United States Senate confirms Pam Bondi as United States Attorney General, making her the third female to run the Justice Department.
Two people are killed and four others are injured after a mass shooting at a warehouse in New Albany, Ohio.
2025 February 5 The United States Postal Service says it is temporarily refusing inbound parcels from China and Hong Kong effective immediately.
Protests against Donald Trump: Protests occur in cities across the United States against Trump, his administration, Elon Musk, and Project 2025. The protests are referred to as 50501.
2025 February 6 President Donald Trump signs an executive order imposing sanctions on International Criminal Court officials that assist investigations into United States citizens or those of its allies, namely Israel. A day later, Seventy-nine countries jointly speak out in a statement against the sanctions.
Bering Air Flight 445: A Cessna 208B Grand Caravan carrying ten people goes missing on a flight from Unalakleet, Alaska to Nome, Alaska. A search and rescue operation is underway.
NASA's Center for Near-Earth Object Studies says that the probability of asteroid 2024 YR4 impacting Earth on 22 December 2032 has increased to 2.3%, or a (1-in-43) chance, following further observations of its trajectory. More observations are planned in the coming months to gather data on the asteroid before it moves too far away from Earth-based telescopes to be accurately observed.
2025 February 7 United States federal judge of the D.C. District Court Carl J. Nichols temporarily blocks President Donald Trump's executive order to place over 2,200 USAID employees on paid leave.
Vice President JD Vance and National Security Advisor Michael Waltz are announced in charge of a potential TikTok sale.
New York City officials order the closure of all live poultry markets in the city as well as in the surrounding suburban counties of Westchester, Suffolk, and Nassau due to an increase in cases of avian influenza.
At the 30th Critics' Choice Awards comedy-drama film Anora wins Best Picture at the Critics' Choice Awards, while Jon M. Chu wins Best Director for musical film Wicked.
2025 February 8 International Criminal Court Prosecutor Karim Ahmad Khan becomes the first person to have economic and travel sanctions placed on him by the United States government following an executive order signed by President Donald Trump intended to target the war crimes tribunal over investigations of United States citizens or United States allies.
The renaming of the Boy Scouts of America organization to Scouting America officially takes effect.
2025 February 9 Super Bowl LIX
The Philadelphia Eagles dominate the Kansas City Chiefs, 40–22, to win the Super Bowl, denying the Chiefs bid for a three-peat.
A performer during Kendrick Lamar’s halftime show is detained on the field after holding the Sudanese and Palestinian flags that contained the words Sudan and Gaza.
President Donald Trump's authorized airstrike in Cal Miskaad mountains in Bari Region, Puntland, on 2025 February 1, is confirmed to have killed ISIS leader Ahmed Maeleminine, a key recruiter and financier for the militant group.
2025 February 10 President Trump issues an ultimatum to Hamas saying that if all remaining hostages are not released by Saturday then "all hell will break loose" in the Middle East. Earlier Hamas said it will delay the release of more hostages and accused Israel of violating their ceasefire deal.
President Trump signs an executive order imposing a 25% tariff on all aluminium and steel imports.
President Trump signs an executive order directing the Department of Justice to pause enforcing the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, a law that prohibits American companies and foreign firms from bribing officials of foreign governments to obtain or retain business.
Louisiana Governor Jeff Landry announces that the state had finalized its new execution protocol, allowing executions to be carried out in Louisiana after 15 years (2010).
OpenAI CEO Sam Altman rejects a $97.4 billion offer to purchase the company by a group of investors led by Elon Musk.
2025 February 11 National Security Adviser Mike Waltz announces that Russia has released Marc Fogel, an American teacher detained since 2021 after Steve Witkoff and several other Trump aides visited Moscow to negotiate an exchange for money launderer Alexander Vinnik.
King Abdullah II of Jordan meets President Donald Trump in Washington D.C. for talks focusing on the president's proposal for the removal of Palestinians from the Gaza Strip and a subsequent United States takeover of the region, with President Trump threatening to withhold aid from Jordan and Egypt if they do not agree to the proposal.
Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States announce sanctions on a Russian bulletproof hosting services provider that is allegedly ignoring law enforcement requests, along with two Russians who are operating the network.
Google Calendar confirms it has removed Black History Month, Pride Month and other cultural events from its service, saying the holidays were "not sustainable" for Google's new business model which is rolling back an emphasis on diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI).
2025 February 12 After holding a telephone call with Russian President Vladimir Putin, President Donald Trump says negotiations to end the war in Ukraine will start immediately.
White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt announces that Belarus has released three detainees, including an American citizen.
2025 February 13 The Treasury Department sanctions Karim Ahmad Khan, the top prosecutor at the International Criminal Court, over his decision to investigate Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Defense Minister Yoav Gallant regarding their conduct during the Gaza war.
Robert F. Kennedy Jr. is confirmed as the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
Acting United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York Danielle Sassoon and five other Justice Department officials resign after being ordered by the second Trump administration to drop a federal corruption case against New York City Mayor Eric Adams.
The Navy Sixth Fleet announces that the Nimitz-class aircraft carrier USS Harry S. Truman was involved in collision at sea with the merchant vessel Besiktas-M on Feb 12 while operating in the vicinity of Port Said, Egypt, in the Mediterranean Sea.
The Trump administration fires more than 300 of the 1,800 staff from the National Nuclear Security Administration – the agency tasked with safeguarding the nuclear stockpile of the United States.
2025 February 14 – The Associated Press (AP) is banned from the Oval Office and Air Force One indefinitely over its continued use of the term "Gulf of Mexico" instead of the official "Gulf of America".
2025 February 15 Flash flooding impacts parts of the United States, claiming at least three lives.
French President Emmanuel Macron announces an emergency summit known as Weimar+ in Paris, between European Union leaders following a controversial speech given by Vice President JD Vance at the Munich Security Conference in which he criticized European leadership as the worst threat to Europe, particularly for imposing too much censorship and too little control over migration.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Secretary of State Marco Rubio speak by telephone about the Russo-Ukrainian War, the Gaza war, the sanctions against Russia, and removing restrictions on each country's diplomatic missions. They also discuss preparations for a high-level summit in Saudi Arabia. This is the first time the United States and Russia have had contact at the foreign minister level in almost two years.
Hundreds of White South Africans hold a protest outside the United States embassy in Pretoria in support of President Donald Trump's claims that the South African government is discriminating against the country's white minority.
2025 February 16 Secretary of State Marco Rubio leads a delegation that includes National Security Advisor Michael Waltz and Special Envoy Steve Witkoff to Riyadh for initial talks with Russia. A Russian source reports that the meeting will occur on 2025 February 18 and that the Russian delegation is expected to include Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, Presidential Aide Yuri Ushakov, and SVR Director Sergey Naryshkin.
The United States military announces that the Yemen Coast Guard had successfully intercepted an Iranian weapons shipment on its way to the Houthi movement in Yemen on 2025 February 12.
2025 February 17 50501 demonstrations take place at state capitols around the United States, including at Union Square in Washington, D.C. against the second administration of President Donald Trump, the Department of Government Efficiency, Elon Musk, and Project 2025.
21 people are injured, including three critically, when Delta Connection Flight 4819, a Mitsubishi Bombardier CRJ-900LR, crashes after catching fire and flipping over at Toronto Pearson International Airport in Canada en route from Minneapolis–Saint Paul International Airport.
February 2025 North American storm complex: Eight adults and one child are killed in flooding caused by heavy rains in the eastern United States.
Weimer+ gather in France for a summit on Ukraine after the United States announced the Riyadh Summit with Russia on ending the Ukrainian war without European participation.
Southwest Airlines announces it will layoff 1,750 jobs, 15% of its corporate workforce, for cost reduction. This is the company's first mass layoff since it started operating in 1971.
In a coordinated operation in Puntland, the United States and the United Arab Emirates launch airstrikes targeting ISIS militants in the Bari Region. This marks the second United States strike since February 1, following the United Arab Emirates's earlier attack which resulted in the deaths of dozens of militants.
2025 February 18 The United States and Russia start talks in Saudi Arabia about the war in Ukraine without European or Ukrainian participation. The delegations agree to start the negotiating process for ending the war, create high-level teams, and normalize diplomatic and economic ties between the two countries.
President Donald Trump accuses Ukraine of starting the war and calls for a new presidential election to be held in Ukraine as part of a peace deal with Russia.
The Senate confirms businessman Howard Lutnick as the Secretary of Commerce in a 51–45 vote.
NASA's workforce is reported to have shrunk by 10% as a result of government cuts.
NASA's Center for Near-Earth Object Studies announces that the chance of asteroid 2024 YR4 impacting Earth on December 22, 2032 has increased to 3.1% (1-in-32) following further observations of its orbital trajectory. It has now surpassed the threat of 99942 Apophis, which once had a 2.7% chance of hitting Earth during 2004 before later being ruled out.
The National Science Foundation dismisses 168 workers, 10% of its workforce, to comply with President Donald Trump's executive order to reduce the federal workforce.
2025 February 19 Apple Inc. announces the iPhone 16e, discontinuing all remaining lightning port iPhones and the home button third-generation iPhone SE.
Two light aircraft, a Lancair 360 MK II and a Cessna 172S, collide midair at Marana Regional Airport near Tucson, Arizona, killing 2 people.
The United Nations Security Council holds an emergency meeting in New York City in response to rapid territorial gains made by M23 rebels, with U.N. special envoy for Congo Bintou Keita saying the council needed to take "urgent and decisive steps to avert a wider regional war."
The Federal Aviation Administration layoffs about 400 jobs, including positions in aviation safety, aircraft maintenance, and flight inspection.
2025 February 20 The Internal Revenue Service announces it will layoff over 6,000 jobs around Tax Day as part of department downsizing led by Elon Musk's Department of Government Efficiency.
Ukraine blocks access to Donald Trump's social media platform Truth Social following critical comments about Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy made by Trump and his Vice President JD Vance calling him a dictator.
Amidst heightened tensions between the two nations, the Canada men's ice hockey team defeats the United States team 3–2 in overtime in the final of the 2025 4 Nations Face-Off at TD Garden in Boston, with Connor McDavid scoring the winning goal.
ATL Technologies CEO Bradford Brown is killed and one person is injured when a Bell 505 Jet Ranger X helicopter crashes into ice at the Ririe Reservoir near Ririe, Idaho.
Seven people are injured in a gas explosion at The Whaler resort in Kaanapali, Hawaii.
2025 February 21 The Pentagon and the Department of Defense announce they will jointly layoff 4,500 probationary workers, cutting 5–8% of the civilian workforce. The United States Forest Service also announces it will layoff 2,000 employees.
Veolia Water agrees to pay $53 million in settlement for all remaining active class action lawsuits for the contamination of drinking water in Flint, Michigan, but refuses to acknowledge any fault in the crisis.
Donald Trump and Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth announces the removal of multiple senior United States officers from their current roles, including the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Charles Q. Brown Jr. and the Chief of Naval Operations Lisa Franchetti.
Hadi Matar is found guilty by a New York jury of attempted murder and assault for his stabbing attack on author Salman Rushdie in 2022.
The Associated Press files a lawsuit for freedom of speech against three Trump administration officials after they banned the news agency from attending presidential press events after the agency refused to refer to the Gulf of Mexico as the "Gulf of America".
Three people are killed in a shooting outside of a motor vehicle office in Louisville, Kentucky.
2025 February 22 Two people, including a police officer, are killed and seven other people are injured in a mass shooting at the UPMC Memorial Hospital in West Manchester Township, Pennsylvania.
One person is killed and another is injured in a shooting at the Kirtland Air Force Base in Albuquerque, New Mexico. The FBI is investigating the shooting but it is believed the incident was not an act of terrorism.
Three people, including two police officers, are killed during a traffic stop in Virginia Beach, Virginia.
2025 February 23 At the 31st Screen Actors Guild Awards, Timothée Chalamet wins Outstanding Leading Male Performance for his role as Bob Dylan in A Complete Unknown, while Demi Moore wins Outstanding Leading Female Performance for her role in The Substance. Political thriller film Conclave wins Outstanding Ensemble Performance in a Motion Picture.
American Airlines Flight 292, flying from New York, to New Delhi, is forced to divert to Rome Fiumicino Airport, due to an unspecified security concern later deemed to be non-credible. The flight was over the Caspian Sea near Turkmenistan when it diverted back towards Europe.
At least three IS–Somalia fighters are killed in a joint Puntland armed forces–United States Africa Command airstrike targeting IS militants hiding in the Cal Miskaad mountains of the Bari Region of Puntland, Somalia.
2025 February 24 The United Nations General Assembly votes 93–18, with 65 abstentions, to pass a resolution condemning Russia's war against Ukraine. The 18 countries that voted against includes the United States, Russia, Belarus, and North Korea.
The Texas Department of State Health Services places several major cities in the state on high alert due to a measles outbreak spreading to 99 people in Texas and New Mexico, the third largest outbreak since it was considered eradicated in the United States in 2000.
NASA formally announces that asteroid 2024 YR4 now poses "no significant threat" to Earth in 2032 and beyond as the chances of an impact drops to 1-in-59,000 (0.0017%). This means a planetary defense mission to intercept and deflect the object in 2028 during a close flyby of Earth is no longer necessary.
Apple announces a $500 billion investment plan in the United States over the next five years, aiming to hire 20,000 new employees and manufacture AI servers.
Starbucks announces that it will cut 1,100 jobs across its stores in the United States as part of cost reduction measures. The company also announces that its menu will be "simplified" and shrunk by 33%.
2025 February 25 Jo-Ann Stores files its second bankruptcy claim and announces it will close all 800 stores in the 49 states, with liquidation sales beginning immediately.
Ukrainian Justice Minister Olha Stefanishyna announces that Ukraine has reached a deal with the United States on mineral resources.
United States District Judge for the Western Washington District Court Jamal Whitehead temporarily blocks President Donald Trump's executive order to suspend the Refugee Admissions Program, ruling that President Trump cannot nullify the law passed by Congress, following a lawsuit against the Trump administration by the International Refugee Assistance Project.
2025 February 26 President Donald Trump announces impending 25% tariffs on the European Union, which he states will be generally applied to sectors such as the automotive industry.
Eli Lilly announces a $27 billion investment plan to open four new manufacturing sites and create 13,000 jobs in the United States.
President Donald Trump cancels energy corporation Chevron's license to operate in Venezuela.
The Trump administration bans reporters from the Associated Press, Reuters, Der Tagesspiegel, and HuffPost from the White House over their refusal to refer to the Gulf of Mexico as the "Gulf of America".
Two people are killed in a shooting in a parking lot on the campus of Old Dominion University in Norfolk, Virginia. Neither of the victims were associated with the university.
2025 February 27 OpenAI announces GPT‑4.5, its largest and most advanced AI model to date.
The Trump administration bans NASA scientists and United States government officials from attending the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change conference that started this week in Hangzhou, China, which are focused on the seventh IPCC Assessment Report on climate change.
President Donald Trump meets with United Kingdom Prime Minister Keir Starmer in Washington, D.C., for talks that include the Russo-Ukrainian War peace negotiations. Starmer also presented a letter from King Charles III inviting Trump to visit London.
Meta Platforms says it has fixed an error that resulted in Instagram users' Reels feeds displaying violent and graphic videos despite these users having content filters enabled.
2025 February 28 A meeting between Trump and Ukrainian President Volodomyr Zelenskyy takes place at the White House. Trump and US Vice President JD Vance sharply criticize Zelenskyy, raising questions about the support for Ukraine, the proposed end to the war, as well as the country's future in general.
A 24-hour consumer spending boycott takes place across the United States, in protest of wealth and income inequality, high prices of essential goods, and the rollback of diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives by the Trump administration.
The Social Security Administration announces it will lay off over 7,000 jobs to align with President Donald Trump's executive order, despite its workforce already being at a 50-year low.
The number of measles cases in Texas increases to 146 with 20 people hospitalized, spanning nine counties in the state.
Mexico extradites 29 alleged cartel members to the United States, including Rafael Caro Quintero, Miguel Treviño Morales, Omar Treviño Morales, Vicente Carrillo Fuentes and Jose Rodolfo Villarreal-Hernandez.
Microsoft announces it will shut down Skype in May 2025 to focus its support and development on Teams.
2025 March 1 President Donald Trump signs an executive order designating English as the country's official language.
United States Central Command says that it has carried out a precision airstrike in Syria, targeting and killing Muhammed Yusuf Ziya Talay, a senior military leader in Hurras al-Din.
2025 March 2 The 97th Academy Awards are held at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles, honoring the best in films released in 2024. Anora wins the most awards, taking five, including Best Picture.
Several wildfires erupt across South Carolina and North Carolina resulting in the evacuation of endangered towns, including several in the Myrtle Beach area. South Carolina governor Henry McMaster declares a state of emergency in response.
Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth orders a halt to offensive cyber operations and information operations against Russia by United States Cyber Command.
Firefly Aerospace successfully lands the Blue Ghost Mission 1 on the Moon as part of NASA's Commercial Lunar Payload Services program, delivering payloads to Mare Crisium with instruments to study lunar regoliths and the interactions between solar wind and Earth's magnetic field.
2025 March 3 TSMC announces plans to invest $100 billion in United States chip manufacturing.
The United States seeks a plan to ease sanctions on Russia and some Russian oligarchs, while pausing all current military aid to Ukraine.
Trump orders an expansion of tree cutting across 280m acres (113m hectares) of national forests and other public lands.
2025 March 4 Trump's 25% tariffs on Mexican and Canadian imports to the United States take effect, while an existing 10% tariff on all Chinese imports rises to 20% amid an ongoing trade war. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says that he will impose a reciprocal 25% tariff on American goods worth up to $155 billion. The Chinese Ministry of Finance announces 10–15% tariffs on a range of American food imports, set to start 2025 March 10.
Donald Trump delivers a speech to a joint session of Congress.
A storm complex leaves over 400,000 people without power in the Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex and brings severe weather to large portions of the Southern United States.
Scientists from Colossal Biosciences create a new species of genetically modified woolly mice.
2025 March 5 Central Intelligence Agency director John Ratcliffe announces that the United States has suspended intelligence sharing with Ukraine.
The United States begins direct negotiations with Hamas over the release of the remaining Israeli hostages. President Donald Trump later threatens on Truth Social and X that the people of Gaza "are dead" unless they return the hostages "immediately".
President Donald Trump announces a one-month temporary reprieve from tariffs for American automakers after receiving complaints from the Big Three: Ford, General Motors, and Stellantis.
The Department of Veteran Affairs announces it will lay off over 80,000 jobs to comply with the Trump administration's plans under the Department of Government Efficiency.
The Department of Defense denies previous media reports that Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth had ordered a halt to offensive cyber operations and information operations against Russia by the United States Cyber Command.
Los Angeles County files a lawsuit against Southern California Edison, the electric utility company servicing most of Southern California, and alleges that the company's power system started the Eaton Fire, seeking to recover costs and damages sustained from the fire that damaged over 9,400 buildings and killed 17 people.
The United States Embassy in Mogadishu warns of imminent attack threats in Somalia, including at Aden Adde International Airport. At the same time, Somali military officials confirm that the Trump administration has halted all funding for Somalia's Danab Brigade special forces and cut billions in USAID grants to the country.
The United States Attorney for the District Court of Vermont indicts and charges 25 Canadians for conspiracy to defraud elderly people in the United States out of US$21 million and charges five of those 25 with conspiracy to commit money laundering.
Three skiers are killed after an avalanche trapped them under more than 30 feet of snow in the Chugach Mountains, Alaska
2025 March 6 Following phone calls between President Donald Trump, Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum, and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Trump announces a pause on some tariffs on both Canada and Mexico until April 2. Sheinbaum states that Mexico will collaborate with the United States on migration and security issues, including controlling cross-border fentanyl smuggling.
CMA CGM announces a $20 billion investment in United States logistics over the next four years, aiming to create 10,000 new jobs.
President Donald Trump signs an executive order creating a Strategic Bitcoin Reserve funded exclusively with bitcoin seized in criminal and civil forfeiture cases.
According to a report in the academic journal Science, the population of the 554 recorded species of butterflies in the United States has declined by 22% since 2000.
The United States withdraws from the Just Energy Transition Partnership, a program that helps emerging countries transition away from non-renewable energy sources like fossil fuels.
SpaceX launches its eighth test flight of the Starship launch vehicle from Starbase in Texas. The first stage is caught by the launch tower despite Raptor engine failures during landing, but the second stage fails during its burn, mirroring the last flight test in January.
Intuitive Machines' space probe IM-2 Athena lands on Mons Mouton near the lunar south pole after launching from Kennedy Space Center in Florida, on February 27.
2025 March 7 Organized demonstrations and walkouts of scientists take place across 30 cities in the United States and France in protest of the Trump administration's grant budget and employment cuts to several government scientific agencies.
The state of South Carolina executes Brad Sigmon by firing squad. This was the first execution by firing squad since 2010, when Ronnie Lee Gardner from Utah was executed by firing squad.
The United States Army stationed in Puntland maintains its operations and will not pull out of the region in response to double ongoing operations in the fight against ISIS in Puntland's Bari Region.
2025 United States federal mass layoffs: The Native American Rights Fund, on behalf of five Indigenous American students and three tribes, the Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribes, the Prairie Band Potawatomi Nation, and the Pueblo of Isleta, file a lawsuit against the United States Department of the Interior and the Bureau of Indian Education (BIE) for alleged wrongful dismissals of BIE schoolteachers.
2025 March 9 Immigration and Customs Enforcement arrests Mahmoud Khalil, a Palestinian student who played a prominent role during pro-Palestinian protests at Columbia University, and revoke his green card and student visa.
In football, Cleveland Browns defensive end Myles Garrett becomes the highest paid non-quarterback in the National Football League after agreeing to a deal with the Browns that totals his salary at $40 million per year.
A man is shot and killed by Secret Service agents near the White House.
A plane crashes in a residential area in Pennsylvania, injuring five people.
2025 March 10 A major sell-off occurs on the stock market, including a 4% drop on the Nasdaq, amid ongoing concern about the impact of tariffs on the US economy.
Ontario Premier Doug Ford announces that the province will charge 25% more for electricity supplied to the United States, which includes the states of Michigan, Minnesota, and New York. It is suspended the next day.
X suffers from multiple global system outages, as owner Elon Musk claims that the site is being targeted in a "massive cyberattack".
2025 March 11 President Trump announces a doubling of tariffs on Canadian steel and aluminium, from 25% to 50%.
The United States and Ukraine announce their intention to seek a 30-day ceasefire with Russia after talks in Jeddah, involving Secretary of State Marco Rubio, National Security Advisor Mike Waltz, and Ukrainian presidential chief of staff Andriy Yermak.
United States District Judge for the District Court of the District of Columbia Amir Ali orders the Trump administration to pay nearly $2 billion in unpaid funds for promised USAID programs that the administration ended.
NASA launches the SPHEREx near-infrared space observatory on a Falcon 9 Block 5 spacecraft from Vandenberg Space Force Base in Santa Barbara County, California. The SPHEREx mission will perform a survey of and map approximately 450 million galaxies across the sky in color.
2025 March 12 A 25% tariff on aluminum and steel products imposed globally by the United States comes into effect. In response, Canadian finance minister Dominic LeBlanc announces retaliatory tariffs on CAD$29.8 billion (US$20.7 billion) of goods from the United States.
Iranian supreme leader Ali Khamenei rejects negotiations with the United States regarding Iran's nuclear program, stating that Iran is "not interested in nuclear weapons".
Idaho Governor Brad Little signs a Bill, which officially makes firing squad as the primary execution method in the state. Idaho became the first state with such a policy.
2025 March 13 Russian President Vladimir Putin says that the American proposal for the ceasefire in Ukraine would depend on Russia's conditions being met, and that there will be further discussions.
The Trump administration reportedly orders the United States military to plan options to expand the presence of American troops in Panama and potentially try to reclaim the Panama Canal.
During an Oval Office meeting with Secretary General of NATO Mark Rutte, President Donald Trump refuses to rule out the United States' possible annexation of Greenland saying "I think that it will happen".
William Alsup of the United States District Court for the Northern District of California orders the Department of Defense, Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Agriculture, Department of Energy, Department of Interior, and the Treasury Department to reinstate workers who were fired by President Donald Trump.
2025 March 14 Severe winds and dry conditions in the states of Oklahoma and Texas cause a series of wildfires, forcing evacuations and leaving thousands without power.
Three people are indirectly killed by storms as a regional risk for an outbreak of severe weather is outlined by the Storm Prediction Center over much of the United States. A rare high risk convective outlook is issued for tomorrow over the Deep South.
Hamas says that it has agreed to resume ceasefire talks and release American Israeli hostage Edan Alexander. This comes after a proposal from Middle East envoy Steve Witkoff.
Iraq announces that the deputy head of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, Abdallah Maki Mosleh al-Rifai, was killed in the Al Anbar Governorate during a joint operation between Iraqi security forces and the United States.
Secretary of State Marco Rubio declares South African Ambassador Ebrahim Rasool persona non grata for his criticism of Donald Trump's 2024 presidential campaign.
President Donald Trump publicly asks Russian President Vladimir Putin to spare the lives of "thousands of Ukrainian soldiers" said to be surrounded in Kursk Oblast.
A total lunar eclipse occurs in the morning hours across the Western Hemisphere at night.
2025 March 15 President Donald Trump orders a series of airstrikes on Houthi-controlled areas in Yemen, killing at least 31 people and wounding 101 more. United States Central Command announces that the strikes are the beginning of a large-scale operation in Yemen. The USS Harry S. Truman is targeted the next day by the Houthis with 18 rockets and drones.
Secretary of State Marco Rubio announces visa restrictions against former and current Thai officials who were involved in deporting at least 40 Uyghur men who were seeking asylum back to China, despite concerns that they could face persecution.
President Trump signs an executive order to end federal funding of news organization Voice of America, accusing it of being "anti-Trump" and "radical". Its entire staff of 1,300 people is put on paid leave.
2025 March 16 The Trump administration says it has deported more than 200 alleged members of Tren de Aragua and MS-13 to El Salvador citing the Alien Enemies Act. El Salvador's President Nayib Bukele says they will be transferred to the Terrorism Confinement Center.
President Donald Trump signs an executive order shutting down multiple state-funded broadcasters, including Voice of America, Radio y Televisión Martí and Alhurra, and ceasing grants to Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty and Radio Free Asia.
2025 March 17 The United States launches airstrikes on targets in Al Hudaydah and the Al Jawf Governorate. Tens of thousands of people attend a rally against the American attacks on Yemen in the capital city Sanaa.
2025 March 18 Convicted rapist-murderer Jessie Hoffman Jr. becomes the first inmate executed in Louisiana in 15 years since 2010, and also becomes the first inmate executed by nitrogen hypoxia in Louisiana.
President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin agree to an immediate energy infrastructure ceasefire in Ukraine during a phone call, with additional negotiations to begin immediately on a permanent settlement of the conflict. Putin stated that the end of all foreign military and intelligence support to Ukraine would be one condition of such a settlement.
NASA astronauts and Crew-9 members Butch Wilmore and Suni Williams arrive back on Earth, after nine months aboard the International Space Station.
2025 March 19 A jury in North Dakota finds that Greenpeace must pay hundreds of millions of dollars to pipeline company Energy Transfer and is liable over defamation and other claims over protests in the state nearly a decade previously.
SoftBank Group announces it will acquire Ampere Computing for $6.5 billion.
United States government sources reveal that President Donald Trump's letter to Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei from two weeks ago contained a deadline of two months for reaching a new deal on Iran's nuclear program.
2025 March 20 United States district judge for the District of Maryland Ellen Lipton Hollander temporarily blocks the Department of Government Efficiency from accessing Social Security systems that cover the personal information of United States citizens. Judge Hollander also orders the department to delete any previously accessed personal identifiable information in their possession.
Trump signs an executive order to begin the process of eliminating the Department of Education.
Electric vehicle maker Tesla recalls nearly all of its Cybertruck models across the US, over a safety issue involving an exterior panel.
The Grand Ole Opry in Nashville, Tennessee celebrates its 100th birthday
2025 March 21 Johnson & Johnson announces plans to invest over $55 billion in building four new plants in the United States within the next four years.
Boeing is awarded a contract worth over $20 billion to build the United States Air Force's Air superiority sixth-generation fighter jet, named the F-47.
The United Arab Emirates commits to a $1.4 trillion investment into the United States economy over ten years.
Three people are killed and fifteen others are injured in a mass shooting in a parking lot during a large gathering at Young Park in Las Cruces, New Mexico.
2025 March 22 – The United States lifts a $10 million dollar reward for information leading to the arrest of Afghan warlord Sirajuddin Haqqani after the Taliban released an American citizen who had been kept in captivity for two years.
2025 March 23 National Security Advisor Mike Waltz says that the United States wants the "full dismantlement" of Iran's nuclear program and that "all options are on the table".
DNA testing firm 23andMe files for bankruptcy.
In tennis, Alexandra Eala becomes the first Filipino player to defeat a top-10 opponent since the WTA rankings began in 1975, after winning in the third round of the Women's singles tournament at the Miami Open against world No. 5 Madison Keys.
In soccer, Mexico wins its first Nations League title after defeating Panama 2–1 in the final held at SoFi Stadium in Inglewood, California.
2025 March 24 Editor-in-chief of The Atlantic, Jeffrey Goldberg, reveals that members of President Trump's cabinet inadvertently shared Yemen strike plans with him in a Signal group chat.
Hyundai Motor Group announces a $21 billion investment in the United States, including a $5.8 billion new steel plant in Louisiana.
Greenlandic prime minister Múte Bourup Egede says a planned visit to the island by senior American officials, including National Security Advisor Michael Waltz and Second Lady Usha Vance, is "highly aggressive" and was designed to "demonstrate power over us".
2025 March 25 – The United States says that Russia and Ukraine agree to cease all military attacks in the Black Sea to ensure safe passage for commercial shipping, while Russia says that it needs guarantees and an order from the U.S. to Ukraine to respect such a deal.
2025 March 26 President Donald Trump signs 25% tariffs on all cars imported to the United States. Canada states that they will respond, while Japan asks to be exempt from the tarrifs.
The United States military conducts airstrikes targeting ISIS militants in the Golis Mountains as part of a coordinated operation led by AFRICOM. The strikes reportedly kill militants without causing any civilian casualties in militant hideouts located in the Golis Mountains of Puntland's Bari Region.
Four American soldiers go missing during training in the Pabradė Training Area in Lithuania. A search for the soldiers is underway and an investigation has been launched.
2025 March 27 The United States suspends financial contributions to the World Trade Organization.
Henrry Josue Villatoro Santos, a top MS-13 gang leader, is arrested in Northern Virginia.
Idaho Governor Brad Little formally signs a bill into law, that permits the death penalty for rape and sexual abuse of children younger than 12 years of age and the Bill will become effective from July 1, 2025, onwards. This law could ultimately challenge the precedent of Kennedy v. Louisiana.
Scheduled events
2025 March 31 – 2025 MLB season: The Athletics will begin their temporary relocation to West Sacramento, California, that is planned to last until   2028, as part of their ongoing relocation to Las Vegas.
2025 April 1 – The 2025 Wisconsin Supreme Court election will take place.
May 5 – Sean "Diddy" Combs is scheduled to be put on trial for sex trafficking crimes.
June 15–July 13 – The 2025 FIFA Club World Cup will take place in 11 cities across the United States.
September 9 – The 80th session of the United Nations General Assembly will open in New York City.
October 14 – Microsoft has set the retirement (end-of-life) date for its Windows 10 operating system on this date. Users will either have to install Windows 11 or use an alternative operating system from Microsoft to receive security updates. However, the third parties programs and LTSC will continue to support it.
November 4 – Elections for the governorships of New Jersey and Virginia will take place alongside other off-year elections.
Federal elections were held in Germany on 23 February 2025 to elect the 630 members of the 21st Bundestag, down from 736 in 2021 due to reforms in seat distribution. The 2025 election took place seven months ahead of schedule due to the 2024 collapse of the incumbent governing coalition. Following the loss of his majority, the chancellor called and intentionally lost a motion of confidence, which enabled the approval of a new election by the president. The 2025 election was the fourth early election in post-war German history, and the first since 2005.
Three opposition parties increased their votes in the election, compared with the previous federal election (2021). The conservative CDU/CSU alliance became the largest group in the Bundestag, with 28.5% of votes. Although this result was well below the 41.5% vote Angela Merkel had achieved in 2013 and its second to worst since 1949, it positioned them to lead the new government. The far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) with 20.8% doubled its share and achieved its best result in nation-wide German elections, moving into second place. The socialist Left party, polling well under 5% until January 2025, massively improved within a few weeks to 9%. On the other hand, the Sahra Wagenknecht Alliance (BSW), a populist splinter from the Left, fell in the polls, and at 4.98% narrowly failed to enter the Bundestag.
The three parties of the formerly governing "Traffic light coalition" all lost support. The centre-left Social Democratic Party (SPD) lost over nine percentage points and dropped to third rank with just 16.4%, their worst result since 1887. Their remaining junior partner, The Greens, also declined from 15% to 12%, still their second best ever result. The Free Democratic Party (FDP), whose departure from the government precipitated the election, recorded their worst historical result with 4.3%, and lost all representation in the Bundestag, as had previously happened in 2013. 
The South Schleswig Voters' Association (SSW), which as a minority party is exempt from the 5% threshold, retained their single seat.
With about 14% of votes not represented in the parliament, CDU/CSU and SPD were assigned 52% of the seats despite only winning 45% of the votes. 
Voter turnout was 82.5%, a six percentage point increase from 2021, and the highest since German reunification.
Background
Date assignment
Germany's Basic Law and Federal Election Act provide that federal elections must be held on a Sunday or a national holiday no earlier than 46 and no later than 48 months after the first sitting of a Bundestag unless the Bundestag is dissolved earlier. The 20th and sitting Bundestag held its first sitting on 26 October 2021. Therefore, the next regular election was to be held on a Sunday between 31 August 2025 and 26 October 2025. In August 2024, the Federal Cabinet initially recommended 28 September 2025 as the election date, which was approved by President Frank-Walter Steinmeier.
Snap election
Federal elections can be held earlier if the president dissolves the Bundestag and schedules a snap election. They may only do so under two scenarios described by the Basic Law:
After a federal election or any other vacancy in the chancellor's office, if the Bundestag fails to elect a chancellor with an absolute majority of its members by the 15th day after the first ballot, the president is free either to appoint the candidate who received a plurality of votes as chancellor or to dissolve the Bundestag (according to Article 63, Section 4).
If the chancellor proposes a motion of confidence that fails, they may ask the president to dissolve the Bundestag. The president can grant or deny the chancellor's request (according to Article 68).
In both cases, federal elections would have to be held on a Sunday or national holiday no later than 60 days after the dissolution.
Following a government crisis, Olaf Scholz dismissed FDP leader Christian Lindner from the incumbent government on 6 November 2024, triggering the collapse of the traffic light coalition and leaving the government without a majority. On the same day, Chancellor Scholz announced he would submit a motion of confidence to hold a snap election; this was initially planned for January 2025 for a late March election but was brought forward after pressure from the opposition.
Scholz submitted a motion of confidence to the Bundestag on 11 December 2024, which was brought to a vote on 16 December. The motion required an absolute majority of 367 yes votes to pass. This was not achieved, with 207 yes votes, 394 no votes, 116 abstentions, and 16 absent or not voting. Of those members who were present and voting, the SPD group unanimously voted for confidence, while all opposition groups except for three members from the AfD voted against confidence. All Green members abstained to ensure the motion would fail without voting against its coalition.
After the vote's failure, Scholz went to Bellevue Palace to meet with President Steinmeier and recommend a dissolution. The governing parties and the CDU/CSU agreed that 23 February 2025 should be the date for the snap election. The president is not obliged to grant a dissolution, and the Basic Law allows him 21 days to decide. The president also has the sole authority to set the election date, though he agreed with the parties' proposal. Steinmeier first held discussions with all party leaders, as he has a constitutional duty to determine whether there is any possible majority in the current Bundestag. On 20 December, Steinmeier's office released a statement confirming that the talks were completed and that there was no possible majority. Steinmeier officially dissolved the Bundestag on 27 December, at the same time setting the election date as 23 February.
Electoral system
Germany has a mixed-member proportional electoral system. Voters have two votes: the first is used to elect a candidate directly in their constituency using first-past-the-post, and the second is for a party's electoral list. To enter the Bundestag, a party must either get five percent of the nationwide second vote or win three constituencies via first votes – passing the electoral threshold. Either case results in that party entering the Bundestag and receiving seats in proportion to its national share of the second vote. Parties representing recognized minorities that contest federal elections, currently only the SSW, are exempt from the threshold.
Initially, in an overall distribution, all 630 seats (except those won by independent candidates) are allocated proportionally at the federal level to parties clearing the threshold, then subsequently within each party to its candidates in each state. Both calculations are done using the Webster/Sainte-Laguë method. The number of constituencies each party wins in each state is subtracted from its allocation to arrive at the final number of list seats. The list seats won by each party are allocated using closed lists drawn up by each party within each state.
Independent candidates are elected if they receive a plurality of the vote in their constituency. The second votes of ballots on which a winning independent candidate is the first vote are not considered in the proportional distribution of seats to preserve voter equality. However, these votes determine whether a party has exceeded the 5% threshold.
2023 reform
Before this election, if a party won enough constituencies in a state to exceed its proportional entitlement, it could keep the so-called overhang seats. As a result of a 2008 decision by the Federal Constitutional Court, leveling seats then had to be added for other parties to keep the composition of the Bundestag proportional. Consequently, the 2017 and 2021 elections saw large numbers of additional seats.
After the 2021 election produced a Bundestag with 736 members – making it the largest freely elected parliament in the world – renewed debate began over the system that had been in place since the 2013 election. The Bundestag passed a reform law in March 2023 to fix the size of any future Bundestag at 630 members. It introduced two major changes:
The seat distribution would be determined solely through each party's share of the second vote (Zweitstimmendeckung, "second vote coverage")
The three-constituency rule (Grundmandatsklausel, "basic mandate clause") was eliminated, but later reinstated by the courts.
The principle of second vote coverage means that parties are no longer allowed to keep overhang seats; if a party wins overhang seats in a state, its constituency winners are excluded from the Bundestag in decreasing order of their first vote share. The three-constituency rule stipulates that if a party does not pass the 5% threshold but wins constituencies, it is only eligible for second vote seats as long as it wins at least three constituencies. A situation where a party won constituencies but failed the three-constituency rule has only happened once: in 2002, the PDS won two constituencies on the first vote and 4% of the second votes, making the party eligible for only two seats in the Bundestag. Independent candidates are excluded from this rule - if an independent wins a constituency (which has not happened since 1949), the candidate is still elected.
Both the CSU and The Left opposed these changes. In the 2021 election, The Left fell short of the five percent threshold but remained in the Bundestag because it won three constituencies. In contrast, the CSU barely crossed the threshold with 5.2% of the nationwide second vote while winning 45 of the 46 constituencies in Bavaria. The CSU was also the only party to win overhang seats in that election. Both parties appealed to President Steinmeier to veto the proposed changes; nevertheless, Steinmeier signed the bill after his office concluded it was constitutional. Both party organizations and the government of Bavaria, controlled by the CSU, filed formal complaints to the Federal Constitutional Court.
Hearings were held on 23 and 24 April 2024. On 30 July 2024, the court largely upheld the new electoral law. However, it ruled that a five-percent threshold without any exceptions is unconstitutional; though it recognized the threshold is necessary to prevent fragmentation, it held there must be measures to minimize wasted votes. To settle electoral law in sufficient time for this election, as an interim measure, the court re-introduced the basic mandate clause as it was "until there is a new regulation on the matter." As such, a party getting a plurality of first votes in at least three constituencies would still enter the Bundestag, obtaining seats in proportion to its national second vote share.
Political parties and candidates
The table below lists the parties represented in the 20th Bundestag that was elected in 2021.
Nominations and lead candidates
In contrast to the 2021 election, the Kanzlerfrage (chancellor question) for the CDU/CSU was resolved relatively quickly. After good performances for the CDU in the September 2024 state elections in Saxony and Thuringia, the two other prospective candidates – North Rhine-Westphalia Minister-President Hendrik Wüst and Bavaria Minister-President and CSU leader Markus Söder – expressed their full support for Friedrich Merz. Söder was thought to pursue another attempt at the nomination; many CDU rank-and-file, however, saw him in a negative light after a months-long battle with Armin Laschet for the nomination in 2021, followed by personal attacks on Laschet that were seen as undermining the Union campaign, as well as his categorical ruling-out of any coalition with the Greens after this election. (The CSU has only provided the Union's lead candidate twice: in 1980 and 2002.)
At The Left's party convention in October, former lead candidate Gregor Gysi announced an effort called Mission Silberlocke ("Mission Silver Locks") to bolster the party's prospects in the face of infighting and faltering polling. Gysi committed to run for re-election in his constituency of Berlin-Treptow – Köpenick, with former parliamentary group leader Dietmar Bartsch running for a third time in Rostock – Landkreis Rostock II and former Minister-President of Thuringia Bodo Ramelow – the only Left member to have led a state government – contesting a Bundestag seat for the first time since 2005 in Erfurt – Weimar – Weimarer Land II. The goal is to capitalize on the three men's relatively high personal popularities and give The Left the best chance to win three constituencies and ensure they remain in the Bundestag. The effort is nicknamed in humorous reference to their advanced ages. Party co-leader Ines Schwerdtner is also running to replace the retiring longtime MdB Gesine Lötzsch in the stronghold of Berlin-Lichtenberg, and parliamentary co-leader Sören Pellmann is seeking re-election in Leipzig II, which are both seen as likely holds for The Left. Experts also rated Gysi and Ramelow as favorites to win their respective constituencies, which combined would retain the party's representation. Jan van Aken was elected party co-chair alongside Schwerdtner on the same day; however, in November, van Aken and parliamentary co-leader Heidi Reichinnek were selected as The Left's dual lead candidacy for the campaign.
In November, various SPD legislators and leading figures – most prominently former party leader Sigmar Gabriel – began publicly calling for Defence Minister Boris Pistorius to be designated the party's chancellor candidate owing to its and Scholz's poor polling. Polling for ARD showed Pistorius as the most favorably viewed national politician: 60% of voters thought he would be a good chancellor, compared to 42% for Merz and 21% for Scholz. In a video released on 21 November, Pistorius ended two weeks of public debate by disavowing any interest in running for chancellor and expressing his full support for Scholz. Such a protracted and public debate, and party leadership's apparent inability to quickly control or restrain it, was seen as embarrassing and damaging; Jusos President Philipp Türmer directly called out party leaders Saskia Esken and Lars Klingbeil for the "shitshow" at their national congress the following weekend. Nonetheless, Scholz was unanimously renominated as chancellor candidate by the party's executive, a group which includes Pistorius, on 25 November. Scholz's nomination was confirmed at a party congress on 11 January; as is usual for sitting chancellors, the vote was by acclamation rather than secret ballot, and he received little opposition.
On 17 November, the Greens nominated sitting vice chancellor Robert Habeck as its chancellor candidate. Habeck and foreign minister Annalena Baerbock remain their co-lead candidates, though Baerbock was the chancellor candidate in 2021. Habeck's campaign does not use the term chancellor candidate and instead refers to him as a "Candidate for the people of Germany" (Kandidat für die Menschen in Deutschland). However, the media uses the usual term.
On 7 December, the AfD executive nominated Alice Weidel as its chancellor candidate. This is the first time the party has referred to its leader as a chancellor candidate (Kanzlerkandidat). This term is normally reserved for the parties (SPD, Greens, and CDU/CSU) seen as having a realistic chance of becoming a senior coalition partner and providing a chancellor instead of the term lead candidate (Spitzenkandidat/in) used for smaller parties. Because other parties refuse to work with it, its chances of entering government are unlikely.
The BSW also nominated Sahra Wagenknecht as a chancellor candidate on 16 December. General Secretary Christian Heye flatly conceded that the party, polling between four and eight percent at the time, had no chance of providing a chancellor and said: "We are neither imagining things nor are we megalomaniacal." He blamed the "inflation" of the term's usage in forcing their hand; he further noted that parties without a Chancellor candidate faced disadvantages, such as no invitations to certain televised debates (most of which were held only between formal Chancellor candidates).
List of candidates
Competing parties
A total of 41 parties have been approved to run in this election. Automatic approval is granted to so-called "established parties": those that have been continuously represented in the Bundestag with at least five members since the previous election (SPD, CDU, Greens, FDP, AfD, CSU, and Left) or those that have been continuously represented in any state parliament with at least five members since that state's last election (Alliance Germany, BSW, and Free Voters). These parties also do not need to submit signatures to support their nominations. The CDU and CSU form a long-standing alliance of conservative parties in Germany, where the CSU only competes in Bavaria and the CDU elsewhere. Both parties always have a joint leading candidate and have a joint parliamentary group in the Bundestag.
Other political organizations constitute "non-established parties" and must petition the Federal Electoral Committee for approval to run in the election. The committee must determine whether these organizations meet the definition of a political party set forth by section 2 of the Political Parties Act: that it desires to influence politics and obtain parliamentary representation "either permanently or for an extended period", and in particular, that its "scope and stability...its number of members, and public profile provide sufficient guarantees of the seriousness of this objective". In addition, most of its members and board of directors must be German citizens, based in and managed from within the country.
Thirty-one parties were approved but must submit signatures to support their nominations. Constituency nominations require 200 signatures of eligible voters residing within its boundaries. The number of signatures needed to file a state list is set at 0.1% of the state's eligible voting population at the previous election, with a maximum of 2,000. The 2023 electoral reform law added the restriction that parties can only run constituency candidates in states where it has a state list.
The committee also determined the validity of a party's claim to represent a recognized minority, which not only exempts them from the five-percent hurdle but also the requirement to submit signatures. The SSW's claim was approved, while the claim of Die Sonstigen ("The Others") was not approved.
On 22 January, Table.Media reported that an FDP member submitted complaints against the validity of 14 of the party's state lists (in all states except Berlin and Lower Saxony), alleging that voting on nominations was not conducted by secret ballot as required by federal law. Instead of filling out a pre-printed ballot, delegates wrote "yes", "no", "abstention", or a candidate's name on a blank sheet of paper while in their seats, which the complaint argued could lead to the ballot being seen by others or the delegate being identified by their handwriting. The electoral committees of several states confirmed they were investigating a complaint, while federal party leaders denied any laws were broken. All of the FDP's lists were ultimately approved. The state returning officer of Hesse, in calling the complaint "far-fetched", pointed to a 2017 court case that found that a minimum level of secrecy (e.g., getting up from one's seat or covering one's ballot with a hand) is sufficient in internal party votes.
Ultimately, 29 of the 41 parties approved to run in the election submitted a valid state list in at least one state. In the table below, green indicates a party's state list has been approved, while red indicates a state list has been rejected. The number in each box indicates how many direct candidates the party ran in the indicated state. Parties are ordered by their results in the 2021 election, then alphabetically.
Campaign
FDP "D-Day" paper
On 15 November 2024, the newspapers Die Zeit and Süddeutsche Zeitung independently reported that the collapse of the traffic light coalition on 6 November was the result of a deliberate strategy in which the FDP had been planning its exit from the alliance for several weeks. They reported on the existence of a detailed working paper that used controversial militaristic language: the 18-page economic report that resulted in Lindner's firing was called "the torpedo", and the upcoming election campaign was described as an "open battle". Most contentious was that the day of the report's publication was referred to as "D-Day" – which in German is used exclusively to refer to the Allied invasion of Normandy and has a violent connotation. Using the language of war to refer to the political process led to heavy criticism.
This also contradicted Lindner's assertion that the end of the government was a "calculated break" on the part of Scholz. Criticism came from the SPD upon the revelation that their coalition partner had not acted in good faith for weeks: parliamentary leader Rolf Mützenich described himself as "feeling deceived and disappointed" and "horrified" by the controversial language. In an 18 November interview with RTL and n-tv, FDP General Secretary Bijan Djir-Sarai denied using the term "D-Day" and stated the party's leadership was unaware of the paper. Lindner did not deny the paper's existence but replied to reporters: "We are in a campaign. Where is the news here?"
Media speculation continued as to what degree the FDP was responsible for the coalition's end. On the morning of 28 November, the online news portal Table.Media published excerpts of an eight-page document alleged to be the working paper; it was indeed titled "D-Day Scenarios and Actions" and laid out a strategy as detailed as the original reporting surmised, including strategies to undermine the coalition, communication tactics, and pre-written quotations for Lindner. SZ confronted party leaders with the excerpts and gave them a 1:30 p.m. deadline to respond to questions. The party did not, but instead officially released the full paper at 6 p.m. with a statement from Djir-Sarai claiming it was "to prevent false impressions ... of the paper" by the media.
According to the party, the paper was first prepared by Federal Managing Director Carsten Reymann on 24 October "to deal with the questions surrounding how the exit of the FDP from the government could be communicated", and the "purely technical paper" was not presented to legislators or government members. Djir-Sarai and Reymann resigned the next day to take responsibility for the paper's contents. SPD acting general secretary Matthias Miersch described Djir-Sarai as "a transparent scapegoat" to protect Lindner and called it "unimaginable" that the party leader would not know of the paper's existence. In a written statement released that evening, Lindner again denied any knowledge of the paper and stated he would not have approved of it and that it was only circulated among internal party staffers and not any elected officials.
Marco Buschmann, who served as justice minister until the traffic light coalition's collapse, was appointed to succeed Djir-Sarai as general secretary of the FDP on 1 December.
Party manifestos and policies
The political parties released manifestos. The CDU proposed support for Ukraine. The FDP proposed pension reform. The Greens proposed support for immigrants. Die Linke proposed a return to their roots of democratic socialism following the Sahra Wagenknecht Alliance split. Wind energy has been a policy.
Debates and interviews
Immediately after the confidence vote's failure, public broadcasters ARD and ZDF announced their plans to hold two debates featuring chancellor candidates from four parties. Scholz and Merz were invited to a debate on 9 February, while Habeck and Weidel were invited to a separate face-off on 10 February. This represented a change from the 2021 campaign, when ARD and ZDF held a three-way debate between the Union, SPD and Green chancellor candidates. Representatives of AfD and the Greens complained about their candidates' exclusions and claimed the public broadcasters had been biased in their decision. Habeck's campaign spokesperson announced he would decline the invitation and accused ARD and ZDF of "intervening" in the campaign in favor of the two established parties. Weidel's spokesperson demanded her inclusion in a three-way debate based on the AfD's second place in opinion polls and said the party was reviewing legal action against the broadcasters. Lindner and Wagenknecht offered to take Habeck's place in the second debate.
On 18 December, Table.Media reported that Scholz had agreed to participate in the ARD–ZDF debate on the condition that he would face off only against Merz, which was accepted by the public broadcasters. Green chief whip Irene Mihalic demanded an explanation from the broadcasters. An ARD spokesperson denied the report and claimed there was no influence by politicians or conditions involved in the decision. According to the spokesperson, the two-way debate would feature the incumbent and the challenger with the best chances to succeed him. Habeck declined his invitation in writing to ARD on 20 December, and the broadcasters cancelled the planned second debate.
The broadcasters also announced plans for two further four-way interview programmes. Scholz, Merz, Habeck and Weidel would separately face questions from an audience in two programmes to be held on 13 and 17 February. They will also preside over their usual "closing roundtable" (Schlussrunde) with the leaders of all parties currently represented in the Bundestag on 20 February.
RTL also announced plans for a debate between Merz and Scholz on the Sunday before the proposed election date. The channel ultimately plans two additional head-to-head debates between other parties' leading candidates on the same night. A spokesperson for the broadcaster said: "We are convinced that one debate with the current five chancellor candidates would be nothing more than a talk show". The Left, which was not invited, stated it was considering legal action against its omission. RTL claimed in a statement that The Left had not been invited due to trailing in opinion polls behind the other parties.
Axel Springer SE media brands Welt and Bild announced a joint debate between Scholz and Merz to be held on 19 February, the last Wednesday before the election.
ProSiebenSat.1 Media was the final major broadcaster to announce a debate or interview program, scheduling what it calls "citizen speed dating" on the night before the election. Ten voters are given three minutes each to ask the four leading candidates their questions.
Possible coalitions
A renewal of the outgoing traffic light coalition was not deemed desirable by any of the three parties. Lindner of the FDP categorically disavowed any prospects of his party joining such a coalition in November following his removal from the government if his party entered the Bundestag again.
A government led by the CDU/CSU was seen as most likely, given it held a large polling lead. Merz was seen as willing to discuss a coalition with the SPD, FDP and Greens; however, CSU leader Söder has openly refused to enter a government with the Greens. Representatives of both parties have stated that a black–green coalition would be difficult to manage. A fifth grand coalition in Germany's history between the CDU and SPD can thus be considered the most realistic outcome of government formation. Such a coalition was also preferred by the voters, being the most popular government arrangement in opinion polling. However, Söder stipulated that he would only support the black-red alliance so long as incumbent SPD chancellor Scholz is not included in the next cabinet. Scholz indicated his intention to step down from leadership post-election and be uninvolved in coalition formation, paving the way for negotiations on a grand coalition.
FDP leader Lindner had indicated his desire to form a government with the CDU/CSU, a frequent coalition throughout modern German history and last represented in the second Merkel cabinet. Merz stated that only if the FDP's polling figures increased to six or seven percent would "a stable majority be in reach". FDP Bundestag Vice-President Wolfgang Kubicki has supported a black-red-yellow "Germany coalition", including the SPD. The FDP failed to reach the 5% necessary for Bundestag representation, and discussions on the idea were rendered moot.
Difficulty in predicting coalitions before the elections came due to the fact that the BSW, FDP, and Linke were all polling around 5% shortly before the election, while the Free Voters were well below 5%. In the end, only Linke of the four smaller parties made it into the Bundestag, meaning that coalition formation could mathematically result in a grand coalition.
Firewall and alleged Union-AfD cooperation
The CDU, SPD, Greens and FDP all refuse to form a coalition including the BSW on the federal level, despite the SPD-BSW coalition (Red–purple coalition) in office in Brandenburg and a CDU-SPD-BSW coalition (blackberry coalition) in Thuringia.
All other parties also refuse to form a coalition with or cooperate with the AfD. The CDU has passed a "resolution of incompatibility" regarding the AfD and The Left, prohibiting cooperation with either party at the federal level; the FDP will also not work with The Left.
Following a stabbing attack in Aschaffenburg on 22 January, in which a rejected Afghan asylum seeker mortally wounded two people, Merz announced that the Union would introduce two non-binding resolutions on migration policy and homeland security to the Bundestag, appealing to SPD and Green lawmakers for their support. Despite high-ranking members of both parties rejecting these initiatives, Merz's "five-point plan" on migration was adopted on 29 January with votes from the Union, FDP and AfD, marking a historic first on the federal level. Lawmakers from the SPD, Greens and Left Party strongly criticized Merz for his alleged cooperation with the AfD, which the Union denied; Catholic, Protestant and Jewish representatives and retired CDU chancellor Angela Merkel voiced similar concerns. Following the vote, hundreds of thousands of protesters attended demonstrations against Merz's decisions across Germany. Subsequently, a similar bill proposed by the Union to limit migrant intake was defeated in the Bundestag on 31 January, despite the AfD's support.
While the debate on the cordon sanitaire dominated political discourse the following weeks, Politbarometer data suggested popular opinion to be split evenly between approval and criticism of Merz's course of action, resulting in no major polling shifts.
Target seats
To repeat the wins that saved their 2021 result, The Left announced Mission Silberlocke (Mission Silver Locks), in which popular party veterans ran in three districts, also aiming to achieve full representation for the party through the Grundmandatsklausel. Due to a last month surge in popularity mainly among young people, The Left won well over 5% of the vote, and two of the three targeted seats in winning six constituencies total, their best showing since winning sixteen in 2009.
The Free Voters targeted four constituencies to enter the Bundestag as a faction via the Grundmandatsklausel. They failed to win any seats as all Bavarian seats were once again won by CSU.
Foreign interference
According to the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution, foreign powers may attempt to discredit candidates seen as undesirable or raise doubts about the election's legitimacy.
United States and Russia
United States businessman and government official Elon Musk repeatedly posted in favor of the AfD on his platform X. He also endorsed AfD in an op-ed published in Welt am Sonntag. This was indirectly criticized by President Steinmeier and directly by the CDU, Greens, SPD, FDP, Left, the German Journalists Association and other German media as unacceptable external influence. Similarly, United States Vice President JD Vance met with AfD leadership and criticized other German parties for refusing to cooperate with the party. Both Scholz and Merz rebuked Vance for his comments.
German security authorities also expected interference in the federal election campaign from abroad. The focus was on officially controlled disinformation campaigns from Russia, to whom Musk is alleged to be connected. The European Digital Media Observatory at the European University Institute cites an investigation from German outlet Correctiv that found over 100 websites had been established with the help of artificial intelligence to spread disinformation regarding electoral candidates.
Members of the Bundestag standing down
Opinion polls
Turnout
By 14:00 local time, early estimates from German election officials indicated that voter turnout was higher this year compared to 2021. 52% of eligible voters had already cast their ballots, excluding mail-in votes. In contrast, at the same point in 2021, the turnout was 36.5%. The results are not directly comparable with those of 2021 because more voters voted by absentee ballot in 2021 due to COVID-19.
In recent German federal elections, including the 2025 election, voter turnout has shown significant regional variations. Participation rates have traditionally been higher in western states such as Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg, while lower in eastern states like in Saxony-Anhalt and Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. However, the 2025 election registred an increase of voter participation in the east, particularly in areas where the AfD gained support. Certain regions, mostly in eastern Germany, experienced exceptional surges in voter participation. In Thuringia, turnout by 12:00 PM reached 44.5%, nearly doubling the figure from the same time in the previous election. Similar upward trends were observed in Berlin and Saxony-Anhalt, where midday turnout stood at 33% and 37.1%, respectively, both unusually high for these regions.
Results
The election reflected a strong divide between the former West and East Germany, with the AfD becoming the strongest party in the east and securing all five former East German states. Two more parties mirrored AfD's overperformance across the former border: the far-left Die Linke, with additional high performances in the former West German states of Bremen and Hamburg, and the BSW, described as 'populist far-left', 'left populist' or 'leftist populist'. All three secured their best results in eastern constituencies, while performing the worst in western ones. This has been the opposite for the four other major parties: the Union, the SPD, the Greens and the FDP. The Union performed well in the western part of the country, securing every area-state there. They recorded a particularly strong result in Bavaria, where the CSU carried every constituency.
Results by state
Constituency seats
The CDU/CSU won 172 constituency seats, while the SPD got narrowly ahead of the AfD with 44 seats to the latter's 42. The Greens came in fourth with 12 seats, with Die Linke securing six. The AfD swept through the former East German states, winning 41 constituencies out of 44. It also won Marzahn – Hellersdorf constituency in eastern Berlin, making it the first time in its history it has won a seat in the capital. In 23 constituencies, the candidate with the most votes was not elected, due to a lack of second vote coverage. Those include 18 Union candidates - 15 from the CDU and three from the CSU - as well as four would-be delegates from the AfD and one more from the SPD.
List seats
Voter demographics
Analysis and aftermath
The CDU/CSU, AfD and Die Linke were considered the biggest winners of the election. Following the election, a lack of diversity in the new Bundestag was reported. 23 candidates who received the most constituency votes in their districts (which would have previously entitled them to a Direktmandat) were excluded from sitting due to the 2023 electoral reform enacted by the Scholz government.
CDU/CSU
The evening following the election, CDU leader Friedrich Merz stated that he and his party were fundamentally opposed to partnering with the AfD to form a government, saying: "We have fundamentally different views, for example on foreign policy, on security policy, in many other areas, regarding Europe, the euro, [and] NATO. […] You want the opposite of what we want, so there will be no cooperation." However, in January 2025, Merz and the CDU had looked for active support from the AfD on several proposals about immigration policies, leading some to speculate that the "firewall" excluding the far-right from governing had fallen, or was no longer a major factor in the party's political strategy.
Merz said that the CDU/CSU alliance had already started negotiations with the SPD to form a coalition government by April of the same year; although the same coalition had already supported governments led by Chancellor Angela Merkel for 12 years, some noted how Merz's political background – being a representative of the CDU's most conservative wing – and his previous criticism of left-wing parties, including the SPD itself and The Greens, faced criticism by progressive politicians. Further political divergences and issues between the CDU and the SPD, including immigration policies, support for Ukraine against the Russian invasion, public expense and fiscal policy, were also cited as key factors that could influence the stability of the government, as well as the relationship between Merz and Markus Söder, the leader of the CSU – the Bavarian counterpart of the CDU.
AfD
The AfD increased its vote share in all states and became the largest party in all five former East German states; according to the exit polls, it was the second most-voted party in the 18-29 age bracket (21%), behind only the Linke, and the most voted party among voters aged between 30 and 44 (26%). Though all other parties represented in the Bundestag stated their opposition to forming an alliance or coalition with the AfD, the CDU campaigned largely on an anti-immigration platform. Björn Höcke, the AfD leader in Thuringia, claimed that "the CDU has employed conservative right wing slogans in their election campaign", arguing that the AfD was the best-positioned party to help Merz implement his campaign agenda.
The AfD is expected to become the largest opposition party in the Bundestag. This position grants the party significant parliamentary privileges, including the right to respond first to the chancellor’s addresses, increased speaking time, and greater influence in committee assignments. The AfD’s influence over committee leadership positions has raised concerns among its opponents, particularly regarding its potential role in security and intelligence oversight. The party’s growing representation in the Bundestag also results in increased public funding. Although all other parties uphold a firewall against cooperation with the AfD, its leaders have expressed confidence that mounting political pressures may eventually force the CDU/CSU to engage with them.
SPD
The SPD only received 16.4% of the vote, the lowest in the modern history of the party. Despite their poor result the SPD are likely to stay in government, though as a minority partner in a grand coalition with the CDU. Following the results of the election, SPD leader and incumbent Chancellor Olaf Scholz announced he would not seek to take part in negotiations for a new government led by CDU leader Friedrich Merz. As a result, SPD co-leader Lars Klingbeil took over negotiations and was expected to become the party's new leader in the Bundestag.
Greens
The morning after the election, co-chancellor candidate of The Greens Robert Habeck announced his withdrawal from the party's leadership. The other co-candidate for The Greens, Annalena Baerbock, as well as former party leader Ricarda Lang, were expected to become the next party leaders in the Bundestag.
Die Linke
Die Linke, which had been initially projected to struggle to return to the Bundestag until weeks before the election took place, won 8.8% of all votes, almost twice as much as their result in the previous cycle; according to the exit polls, it was the most voted party among voters aged between 18 and 29 (24%). It also increased its vote share in every region. Some analysts attributed the party's result to the positive outcome of its campaign, which had notably avoided focusing on more restrictive immigration policies, in contrast to other left of centre parties such as the SPD, and had included further measures to fight poverty and the housing crisis.
FDP
Shortly after it was known that the FDP would not return to the Bundestag, having not managed to win at least 5% of all votes following the disastrous defeat, Christian Lindner resigned as the party's leader and announced his retirement from active politics. The FDP's general secretary, Marco Buschmann, also stepped down from his role. This was the worst result in the party's history in terms of percentage of the party list vote.
BSW
The BSW fell just short of reaching the nationwide five percent hurdle with 13,435 votes fewer than needed to qualify for seats. The 4.97% of the second vote meant they would not be represented in the Bundestag. Some noted how the rise of Die Linke in opinion polls prior to the election might have likely harmed the prospects of the BSW. As a result, party leader Sahra Wagenknecht threatened to take legal action over the election's results, citing overseas voting problems.
International reactions
Leaders
United States: In a post on Truth Social, President Donald Trump congratulated the election winners without naming Friedrich Merz or the CDU/CSU. He argued that Germany's shift to the right reflected a political trend shared with the United States, driven by issues like immigration and energy policy.
 United Kingdom: Prime Minister Keir Starmer congratulated Merz and the CDU/CSU for their election results and expressed a willingness to cooperate further with the next German government.
 Ukraine: President Volodymyr Zelenskyy congratulated the CDU/CSU on their victory and said he would look forward to "continuing our joint work" to "bring real peace closer to Ukraine, and strengthen Europe."
 France: President Emmanuel Macron said he had spoken with Merz to congratulate him on his election victory and praised SPD leader Scholz.
 Israel: Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu congratulated Merz and the CDU/CSU and expressed a desire to increase cooperation between the two countries.
 Egypt: President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi congratulated Merz and the CDU/CSU on their election victory, wishing him success. He expressed a commitment to strengthening strategic bilateral relations and emphasized the importance of joint coordination in "promoting regional peace and stability at this critical time."
 Greece: Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis called the election "A decisive victory for our political family, for Germany, and for Europe. Congratulations Friedrich Merz! One thing is clear: you will be Germany's next chancellor."
 Czech Republic: Prime Minister Petr Fiala called for greater cooperation between the next German government and hoped for success in the forthcoming coalition negotiations.
 Hungary: Prime Minister Viktor Orbán congratulated Alice Weidel on X stating that "people of Germany voted for change in immense numbers."
 Finland: Prime Minister Petteri Orpo congratulated Friedrich Merz, emphasizing the need for a strong Germany to support Ukraine and bolster Europe's security and economy.
 Latvia: Prime Minister Evika Siliņa expressed enthusiasm about building a "stronger, more secure and competitive Europe" with Merz.
 Portugal: Prime Minister Luís Montenegro looked forward to tackling "common challenges in the EU, NATO and the United Nations."
 Denmark: Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen congratulated Merz, stressing the importance of a "strong Europe and a strong Germany" in uncertain times.
 Croatia: Prime Minister Andrej Plenković congratulated Merz and Söder, and expressed hope that the formation of a new German government will be as soon as possible.
 NATO: Secretary-General Mark Rutte congratulated Merz on his election victory and called on European allies to increase defence spending.
 Russia: Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov emphasized a desire for a more pragmatic approach to areas of mutual interest but acknowledged that the future of bilateral ties would depend on how the new German government acts, stating that Russia would wait to see how relations evolve.
Others
Austria: The leader of the Freedom Party of Austria, Herbert Kickl, stated: "Today, a gentle, soothing wind of the freedom of 1989 is blowing through Berlin and the entire Federal Republic."
 Italy: Italian Deputy Prime Minister Matteo Salvini stated: "Change is winning in Germany too! AfD doubles its votes, despite attacks and lies from the left: stop illegal immigration and Islamic fanaticism, enough with the eco-madness, prioritize peace and jobs, Europe must be radically changed." and congratulated AfD co-leader Weidel.
Government formation
The failure of the FDP and BSW to reach the 5 per cent threshold in the Bundestag meant that the two parties did not receive seats in the new Bundestag. Although the CDU/CSU emerged as the strongest party group, it fell short of an absolute majority, which made further coalition negotiations necessary. The only possible majorities in the Bundestag involving just two groups would be the ones involving the CDU/CSU and either the SPD or the AfD.
Since Friedrich Merz had publicly ruled out a coalition with the AfD on repeated occasions before and after the election, the only coalition which was considered was one between the centre-right CDU/CSU and the centre-left SPD. The SPD under the leadership of co-party leader Lars Klingbeil agreed to the talks. The decision to start the talks immediately was motivated by the desire of both parties to find a solution to pressing challenges such as the stagnating German economy, the ongoing  Russian invasion of Ukraine and concerns about the actions of US President Donald Trump that are undermining transatlantic relations, to avoid prolonged political uncertainty.
Because the CDU/CSU and SPD were always the strongest parties until this election, a coalition of the two is conventionally known as a "grand coalition" (Große Koalition). Such a coalition has already existed four times in Germany (Kiesinger cabinet, Merkel I cabinet, Merkel III cabinet, Merkel IV cabinet), first from 1966, when the conservative-liberal coalition of the CDU and FDP under Chancellor Ludwig Erhard collapsed and most recently from 2017 until 2021 under Chancellor Angela Merkel, when the coalition negotiations between the CDU, Greens and FDP failed. The coalitions often only materialised when other coalitions were not possible.
Start of the negotiations
The CDU negotiating team included Friedrich Merz and other high-ranking officials such as CSU leader Markus Söder, CDU General Secretary Carsten Linnemann and CDU parliamentary group leader Thorsten Frei, CSU parliamentary group leader Alexander Dobrindt, the Saxon Minister President Michael Kretschmer, the deputy chairwoman of the CDU Karin Prien and CSU politician Dorothee Bär. The SPD delegation was made up of important personalities such as Defence Minister Boris Pistorius and Labour Minister Hubertus Heil, as well as the Secretary General Matthias Miersch, Bundestag President Bärbel Bas, the two Minister Presidents Manuela Schwesig and Anke Rehlinger, and the head of the SPD in North Rhine-Westphalia Achim Post.
Both sides had originally wanted the talks not to commence until 5 March, in view of the parliamentary elections in Hamburg on 2 March, as well as Carnival (peaking 3 March), which is very popular in some parts of Germany. Subsequently however, Klingbeil and Merz agreed to an early start in their talks, so exploratory talks between the two parties began in Berlin on 28 February 2025, five days after the election. Merz had set himself the target of forming a coalition by Easter. From the outset, there were differences of opinion between the CDU and SPD on the reform of the debt brake (which limited the German budget deficit to 0.35% of GDP per year), a possible tax reform, the minimum tax reform, the minimum wage, the citizen's income, immigration and a new right to vote.
Following the events at the White House on 28 February, exploratory talks were further intensified, as both parties recognised the need for a government capable of acting quickly in Europe's largest economy after US President Donald Trump suspended US military aid for Ukraine. The parties met again on 3 March.
Debt brake agreement
On the evening of 4 March, after it had already become apparent several times over the course of the previous days, it was made public that the CDU/CSU and SPD had reached an agreement on billions in debt. According to the draft, there were plans to change the Basic Law (German constitution) in order to exclude defence expenditure of over 1% of GDP and a second special fund, this time not for defence as in 2022, but for infrastructure in the amount of 500 billion euros. However, Merz had ruled out a reform of the debt brake and additional debt during the election campaign.
Since the proposals would require changes to the Basic Law, they would require approval by a two-thirds majority in both the Bundestag and the Bundesrat. However, in the newly elected, incoming Bundestag, parties opposed to these changes - the right-wing AfD and the left-wing party The Left - together held a blocking minority of more than one third of the members. The prospective coalition partners (CDU/CSU and SPD) therefore decided to attempt to pass the legislation through the outgoing 20th Bundestag (elected in 2021), where they could reach the necessary majority if either Greens or FDP voted in favour. Therefore the parties requested two special sessions on the proposed constitutional changes (12 and 18 March). According to Article 39 (2) of the Basic Law, an outgoing Bundestag is capable of acting until the inauguration of the newly elected parliament, no later than the 30th day after the election. An outgoing Bundestag had decided on urgent matters before but never on changes to the Basic Law, nor had this previously been done by a parliament prematurely dissolved. 
On 8 March, both sides started of coalition negotiations and set out their initial common positions in a paper. The plans were critisised by the AfD. which saw it as socialism. The FDP viewed it as "ideologised climate policy". The Greens and The Left criticised omissions in the social sphere, and the BSW saw it as "a red carpet rolled out for the AfD to enter the Chancellery in 2029". Economists also criticised the paper.
On 10 March, the Greens, on whose approval the CDU and SPD are reliant on for their plans, announced that they did not want to approve the project. Instead, they introduced their own draft bill in the Bundestag which, among other things, called for the debt brake to be applied not only to defence, but also for civil defence and cyber security from 1% of GDP. At the same time, they saw the special funds for infrastructure as a way for the SPD and CDU/CSU to finance their election campaign promises, instead of the infrastructure. Nevertheless, they were open to talks.
At the same time, The Left and AfD took their case to the Federal Constitutional Court to appeal against the special sessions and the constitutional amendments in the "old" Bundestag as they felt their rights as members of parliament had been violated. The requests for an interim injunction were rejected by the Federal Constitutional Court on 14 March.
The first of the two special sessions was then held on 12 March in the Bundestag. The SPD and CDU/CSU motions, as well as those of the Greens and the FDP were referred to the relevant committees after a long debate. On the same day, the minister presidents of the federal states in Berlin called for speed. In the meantime, however, it was uncertain whether the necessary majority in the Bundesrat existed, as it was reported that the Free Voters in Bavaria and the BSW in Brandenburg and Thuringia did not want to vote in favour of the change.
On 13 March, it was announced that the Greens, CDU and SPD had reached an agreement. According to the compromise, 100 billion of the 500 billion special funds for infrastructure will go towards climate protection. Moreover, spending on civil defence, cyber security, intelligence services and aid to countries attacked in violation of international law will all be excluded from the debt brake.
On 16 March, the Bundestag Budget Committee, which is primarily responsible for the application, met. It dealt with the motions from the CDU/CSU and SPD, the Greens and the FDP. In its recommendation for a resolution, the committee proposed the already-agreed legislative text of the CDU/CSU, SPD and Greens for a vote. However, the FDP's draft bill was to be rejected.
On 17 March, the Federal Constitutional Court published several decisions on urgent petitions submitted by the AfD, The Left and the FDP or their MPs. The plaintiffs wanted the court to declare that the planning of the legislative procedure violated the plaintiffs' rights as members of parliament, as the speed of implementation did not do justice to the complexity of the matter. This would have halted the legislative process. The court dismissed the applications in summary proceedings as the potential disadvantage could not be sufficiently demonstrated. The decision in the main proceedings is still pending.
On 18 March, the Bundestag met for its second special session. Before the debate began, Bundestag President Bärbel Bas (SPD) recalled the first free election in the GDR on 18 March 1990, after which the Bundestag rejected several motions to suspend the Rules of Procedure tabled by the FDP and the AfD. The debate centred not only on the SPD, CDU/CSU and Greens' bill, but also on that of the FDP and a motion for a resolution by the BSW entitled “No to war-mongering - yes to diplomacy and disarmament”.
The SPD parliamentary group leader Lars Klingbeil called it a "historic decision" for Germany and Europe. CDU/CSU leader Friedrich Merz said a "paradigm shift in defence policy" was needed to continue to guarantee Europe's security. Green parliamentary group leader Britta Haßelmann accused Merz of party tactics, as he had ruled out debt during the election campaign. Nevertheless, she was pleased with the compromise. The FDP party leader Christian Lindner accused the new government of "unrestrained debt creation". The AfD and the Left also criticised Merz and the legislative process.
In the end, the majority of the CDU/CSU, SPD and Greens voted in favour of the motion, with a total of 512 MPs voting in favour and 212 against. The amendment to the Basic Law was thus passed. The vote was hailed as a victory for Friedrich Merz and a significant step toward changing the Basic Law to allow for greater flexibility in defence and infrastructure spending. With the Bundestag's approval by a two-thirds majority, the proposed changes moves to the Bundesrat, where it requires approval by a two-thirds majority for full enactment.
NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte and EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen welcomed the decision.
On 18 March too, the Free Voters, who are in government with the CSU in Bavaria, announced that they would vote in favour of the law in the Bundesrat. As such, a two-thirds majority in the Bundesrat was considered certain. On 21 March, the Bundesrat voted in favour of the amendment 53-16, passing the two-thirds threshold to become law. The states of Brandenburg, Saxony-Anhalt, Thuringia, and Rhineland-Palatinate all abstained from voting, which was counted as voting in opposition.
In several states (North Rhine-Westphalia, Baden-Württemberg, Bremen and Hesse), the FDP state parliamentary groups have announced that they will appeal to the state constitutional courts against their state governments' approval of the law. The applications were all rejected as they were inadmissible. On the one hand, the state government is responsible for representing and voting for a state in the Bundesrat. This means that it alone can vote on its voting behaviour. Secondly, an individual parliamentary group is not authorised to assert the rights of a state parliament; only the state parliament itself can do this.
On 21 March, the Federal Constitutional Court dismissed another urgent application by the AfD to prevent the Bundesrat from meeting. The session was opened by Bundesrat President Rehlinger with a memorial speech in honour of the late Bundesrat President and Minister President Bernhard Vogel. 
The meeting then moved directly to the planned legislative amendments: In his speech, Winfried Kretschmann (Minister President of Baden-Württemberg) praised the extension of the 500 billion infrastructure package to include climate protection. ‘More climate protection is a core task of this century.’ Nevertheless, he lamented a ‘feeling of disruption’ due to the rapid legislative process.
Bavaria's Minister President Markus Söder called for the money from the infrastructure package to be distributed and utilised sensibly. It is ‘not a self-service shop for any projects’, said Söder. He also called for a long-term repayment plan. Regardless of party affiliation, almost all speakers welcomed the easing of the debt brake for the federal states and called on the federal government to significantly speed up the planning and award procedures for contracts from the infrastructure package and to quickly pass the necessary implementation laws in order to eliminate the ‘ailing infrastructure’ and the ‘investment backlog’ (both terms used by several speakers) as quickly as possible. ‘What use is the most beautiful special fund if we can't manage it in practice?’ said Bremen's head of government Andreas Bovenschulte.
In the end, all federal states except Brandenburg, Rhineland-Palatinate, Saxony-Anhalt and Thuringia voted in favour; the others abstained. The reason for this was the disagreement between the coalition partners. While the CDU and SPD each wanted approval, the BSW and FDP wanted the proposal to be rejected. In such cases, the state abstains. 
President Frank-Walter Steinmeier signed the law on 22 March.
See also
2024 German government crisis
2025 elections in the European Union
Notes
== References ==
The 2024 Summer Olympics (French: Les Jeux Olympiques d'été de 2024), officially the Games of the XXXIII Olympiad (French: Jeux de la XXXIIIe olympiade de l'ère moderne) and branded as Paris 2024, were an international multi-sport event held from 26 July to 11 August 2024 in France, with several events started from 24 July. Paris was the host city, with events (mainly football) held in 16 additional cities spread across metropolitan France, including the sailing centre in the second-largest city of France, Marseille, on the Mediterranean Sea, as well as one subsite for surfing in Tahiti, French Polynesia.
Paris was awarded the Games at the 131st IOC Session in Lima, Peru, on 13 September 2017. After multiple withdrawals that left only Paris and Los Angeles in contention, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) approved a process to concurrently award the 2024 and 2028 Summer Olympics to the two remaining candidate cities; both bids were praised for their high technical plans and innovative ways to use a record-breaking number of existing and temporary facilities. Having previously hosted in 1900 and 1924, Paris became the second city ever to host the Summer Olympics three times (after London, which hosted the games in 1908, 1948, and 2012). Paris 2024 marked the centenary of the 1924 games and the 1924 Winter Olympics in Chamonix (the first Winter Olympics), as well as the sixth Olympic Games hosted by France (three Summer Olympics and three Winter Olympics) and the first with this distinction since the 1992 Winter Games in Albertville. The Summer Games returned to the traditional four-year Olympiad cycle, after the 2020 edition was postponed to 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Paris 2024 featured the debut of breaking as an Olympic sport, and was the final Olympic Games held during the IOC presidency of Thomas Bach. The 2024 Games were expected to cost €9 billion. The opening ceremony was held outside of a stadium for the first time in modern Olympic history, being outdoors in the Paris's downtown and with as athletes were paraded by boat along the Seine. Paris 2024 was the first Olympics in history to reach full gender parity on the field of play, with equal numbers of male and female athletes.
The United States topped the medal table for the fourth consecutive Summer Games and 19th time overall, with 40 gold and 126 total medals. China tied with the United States on gold (40), but finished second due to having fewer silvers; the nation won 91 medals overall. This is the first time a gold medal tie among the two most successful nations has occurred in Summer Olympic history. Japan finished third with 20 gold medals and sixth in the overall medal count. Australia finished fourth with 18 gold medals and fifth in the overall medal count. The host nation, France, finished fifth with 16 gold and 64 total medals, and fourth in the overall medal count. Dominica, Saint Lucia, Cape Verde and Albania won their first-ever Olympic medals, the former two both being gold, with Botswana and Guatemala also winning their first-ever gold medals. The Refugee Olympic Team also won their first-ever medal, a bronze in boxing.
Despite some controversies throughout relating to politics, logistics and conditions in the Olympic Village, the games were considered a success by the press, Parisians and observers upon its conclusion. The Paris Olympics broke all-time records for ticket sales, with more than 9.5 million tickets sold (12.1 million including the Paralympic Games).
Host selection
Having previously hosted the 1900 and 1924 Games, Paris did not attempt to host the Olympics again until it bid, unsuccessfully, for the 1992 Games which were awarded to Barcelona. Subsequent bids for the 2008 and 2012 Games were also unsuccessful, as they were awarded to Beijing and London, respectively. Undeterred, Paris decided to bid once more for the 2024 edition, which would mark the centenary of its last Games.
The six candidate cities were Paris, Hamburg, Boston, Budapest, Rome, and Los Angeles. The bidding process was slowed by withdrawals, political uncertainty, and rising costs. Boston surpassed Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Washington, DC, for the official U.S. bid. On 27 July 2015, Boston and the USOC mutually agreed to terminate Boston's bid to host the Games, partly because of mixed feelings among city residents. Hamburg withdrew its bid on 29 November 2015 after holding a referendum. Rome withdrew on 21 September 2016, citing fiscal difficulties. Budapest withdrew on 22 February 2017, after a petition against the bid collected more signatures than necessary for a referendum.
Following these withdrawals, the IOC Executive Board met on 9 June 2017 in Lausanne, Switzerland, to discuss the 2024 and 2028 bid processes. The International Olympic Committee formally proposed electing the 2024 and 2028 Olympic host cities at the same time, a proposal which an Extraordinary IOC Session approved on 11 July 2017 in Lausanne. The IOC set up a process whereby the LA 2024 and Paris 2024 bid committees met with the IOC to discuss which city would host the Games in 2024 and 2028 and whether it was possible to select the host cities for both at the same time.
Following the decision to award the two Games simultaneously, Paris was understood to be the preferred host for 2024. On 31 July 2017, the IOC announced Los Angeles as the sole candidate for 2028, enabling Paris to be confirmed as host for 2024. Both decisions were ratified at the 131st IOC Session on 13 September 2017.
Host city election
Paris was elected as the host city on 13 September 2017 at the 131st IOC Session in Lima, Peru. The two French IOC members, Guy Drut and Tony Estanguet, were ineligible to vote under the rules of the Olympic Charter.
Development and preparations
Venues
Most of the Olympic events were held in the city of Paris and its metropolitan region, including the neighbouring cities of Saint-Denis, Le Bourget, Nanterre, Versailles, and Vaires-sur-Marne.
The basketball preliminaries and handball finals were held in Lille, 225 km (140 mi) from the host city, Paris; the sailing and some of the football games were held in the Mediterranean city of Marseille, which is 777 km (483 mi) from Paris; meanwhile, the surfing events were held in Teahupo'o village in the overseas territory of Tahiti, French Polynesia, which is 15,716 km (9,765 mi) from Paris. Football was also hosted in an additional five cities: Bordeaux, Décines-Charpieu (Lyon), Nantes, Nice and Saint-Étienne, some of which are home to Ligue 1 clubs.
Grand Paris zone
Paris Centre zone
Versailles zone
Outlying venues
Non-competitive
Medals
The president of the Paris 2024 Olympic Organizing Committee, Tony Estanguet, unveiled the Olympic and Paralympic medals for the Games in February 2024, which on the obverse featured embedded hexagon-shaped tokens of scrap iron that had been taken from the original construction of the Eiffel Tower, with the logo of the Games engraved into it. Approximately 5,084 medals would be produced by the French mint Monnaie de Paris, and were designed by Chaumet, a luxury jewellery firm based in Paris.
The reverse of the medals features Nike, the Greek goddess of victory, inside the Panathenaic Stadium which hosted the first modern Olympics in 1896. Parthenon and the Eiffel Tower can also be seen in the background on both sides of the medal. Each medal weighs 455–529 g (16–19 oz), has a diameter of 85 mm (3.3 in) and is 9.2 mm (0.36 in) thick. The gold medals are made with 98.8 percent silver and 1.13 percent gold, while the bronze medals are made up with copper, zinc, and tin.
Security
France reached an agreement with Europol and the UK Home Office to help strengthen security and "facilitate operational information exchange and international law enforcement cooperation" during the Games. The agreement included a plan to deploy more drones and sea barriers to prevent small boats from crossing the Channel illegally. The British Army would also provide support by deploying Starstreak surface-to-air missile units for air security. To prepare for the Games, the Paris police held inspections and rehearsals in their bomb disposal unit, similar to their preparations for the 2023 Rugby World Cup at the Stade de France.
As part of a visit to France by Qatari Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani, several agreements were signed between the two nations to enhance security for the Olympics. In preparation for the significant security demands and counterterrorism measures, Poland pledged to contribute security troops, including sniffer dog handlers, to support international efforts aimed at ensuring the safety of the Games. The Qatari Minister of Interior and Commander of Lekhwiya (the Qatari security forces) convened a meeting on 3 April 2024 to discuss security operations ahead of the Olympics, with officials and security leaders in attendance, including Nasser Al-Khelaifi and Sheikh Jassim bin Mansour Al Thani. A week before the opening ceremony, the Lekhwiya were reported to have been deployed in Paris on 16 July 2024.
In the weeks running up to the opening of the Paris Olympics, it was reported that police officers would be deployed from Belgium, Brazil, Canada (through the RCMP/OPS/CPS/SQ), Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany (through Bundespolizei/NRW Police), India, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Morocco, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, South Korea, Spain (through the CNP/GC), Sweden, the UAE, the UK, and the US (through the LAPD, LASD, NYPD, and the Fairfax County Police Department), with more than 40 countries providing police assistance to their French counterparts.
Security concerns impacted the plans that had been announced for the opening ceremony, which was to take place as a public event along the Seine; the expected attendance was reduced by half from an estimated 600,000 to 300,000, with plans for free viewing locations now being by invitation only. In April 2024, after Islamic State claimed responsibility for the Crocus City Hall attack in March, and made several threats against the UEFA Champions League quarter-finals, French president Emmanuel Macron indicated that the opening ceremony could be scaled back or re-located if necessary. French authorities had placed roughly 75,000 police and military officials on the streets of Paris in the lead-up to the Games.
Following the end of the Games, the national counterterrorism prosecutor, Olivier Christen, revealed that French authorities foiled three terror plots meant to attack the Olympic and Paralympic Games, resulting in the arrest of five suspects.
Food
To reduce the environmental impact and climate footprint of the Paris 2024 Games, the Olympic venues served twice as much plant-based food as was available in London in 2012 and Rio in 2016. Vegan chicken nuggets and vegan hot dogs were served in place of the meat-based variety. Venues for spectators served on average two-thirds plant-based meals. The Place de la Concorde, the venue that hosted the skateboarding, breakdancing and BMX events, only served plant-based food. The football stadiums served 40% plant-based food. About 30% of the meals served to athletes in the Olympic Village were plant-based.
A prior estimate of 13 million meals will be served at the Games; with around 40,000 meals each day, 1,200 of those will be Michelin-starred. Each day, a boulangerie will bake fresh baguettes and other breads. A 3,500-seat restaurant was constructed for the Games to highlight global cuisine. Great Britain's team asked for porridge to be added to the menu, and South Korea's team asked for kimchi.
Throughout the Games, various athletes and competitors at the Olympic Village complained about certain foods within the accommodation such as eggs and grilled meats not being available in sufficient quantity. British athletes also reportedly complained about raw meat being served and the food issues led many of them to begin to avoid the Olympic Village dining facilities and to eat elsewhere; the British Olympic Association having flown in chefs to take care of the nourishment of British athletes at a location outside the Olympic Village.
Air conditioning
In the lead-up to the Games, it was announced that the Olympic Village would lack air conditioning; as an environmental measure, the buildings would instead use a geothermal natural cooling system to keep the inside temperature 6 °C (11 °F) cooler than outside. On learning this, many teams opted to supply their own air-conditioning units to the Games, including Canada, Great Britain, Italy, Germany, Greece, Denmark, Japan, and the US. Olympic delegations from poorer countries, such as Uganda, complained that they could not afford to provide air conditioning for their athletes.
Transportation
Over €500 million was invested in transport improvements for the Games, with extensions to the Paris Métro and 60 kilometres (37 mi) of new cycle lanes. Visitors to Paris paid higher public transport fares during the Games, €4 instead of the previous €2.15 price. This paid for the increased frequency and hours of service for public transport during the Games, with an average increase of 15% in services. As with previous Games, 185 kilometres (115 mi) of reserved traffic lanes was used to ensure reliable journey times for athletes, officials and the media.
Volunteers
The Paris 2024 volunteer platform for the Olympic and Paralympic Games was opened to the public in March 2023. There were expected to be 45,000 volunteers recruited worldwide for the Games. Following the end of registration on 3 May 2023, over 300,000 applications had been submitted to the Paris Organising Committee, exceeding the number of applicants for the previous two Olympics. Applicants were notified of the outcome of their application between September and December 2023. Over 800 applicants were excluded over security fears, among which 15 were flagged with Fiche S.
Torch relay
The Olympic torch relay began with the lighting of the Olympic flame on 16 April in Olympia, Greece, 100 days before the start of the Games. Greek rower Stefanos Douskos was the first torchbearer and swimmer Laure Manaudou served as the first French torchbearer. The latter was selected to be one of four captains of the torch relay, alongside swimmer Florent Manaudou (her brother), paratriathlete Mona Francis, and para-athlete Dimitri Pavadé. The torch relay was expected to have 10,000 torchbearers and visit over 400 settlements in 65 French territories, including six overseas. On 18 May, it was reported that the portion of the relay in New Caledonia was cancelled due to ongoing unrest in the collectivity.
Tickets
9.5 million of the 10 million tickets available for the games were sold.  Several sports reported record attendance.
The Games
Opening ceremony
The opening ceremony began at 19:30 CEST (17:30 GMT) on 26 July 2024. Directed by Thomas Jolly, it was the first Summer Olympics opening ceremony to be held outside the traditional stadium setting (and the second ever after the 2018 Youth Olympic Games one, held at Plaza de la República in Buenos Aires); the parade of athletes was conducted as a boat parade along the Seine from Pont d'Austerlitz to Pont d'Iéna, and cultural segments took place at various landmarks along the route. Jolly stated that the ceremony would highlight notable moments in the history of France, with an overall theme of love and "shared humanity". The athletes then attended the official protocol at Jardins du Trocadéro, in front of the Eiffel Tower. Approximately 326,000 tickets were sold for viewing locations along the Seine, 222,000 of which were distributed primarily to the Games' volunteers, youth and low-income families, among others.
The ceremony featured music performances by American musician Lady Gaga, French-Malian singer Aya Nakamura, heavy metal band Gojira and soprano Marina Viotti, Axelle Saint-Cirel (who sang the French national anthem "La Marseillaise" atop the Grand Palais), rapper Rim'K, Philippe Katerine (who portrayed the Greek god Dionysus), Juliette Armanet and Sofiane Pamart, and was closed by Canadian singer Céline Dion. The Games were formally opened by president Emmanuel Macron.
The Olympics and Paralympics cauldron was lit by Guadeloupean judoka Teddy Riner and sprinter Marie-José Pérec; it had a hot air balloon-inspired design topped by a 30-metre-tall (98 ft) helium sphere, and was allowed to float into the air above the Tuileries Garden at night. For the first time, the cauldron was not illuminated through combustion; the flames were simulated by an LED lighting system and aerosol water jets.
Controversy ensued at the opening ceremony when a segment was interpreted by some as a parody of the Last Supper. The organisers apologised for any offence caused. The Olympic World Library and fact-checkers would later debunk the interpretation that the segment was a parody of the Last Supper. The Olympic flag was also raised upside down.
During the day of the opening ceremony, there were reports of a blackout in Paris, although this was later debunked.
Sports
The programme of the 2024 Summer Olympics featured 329 events in 32 sports, encompassing a total of 48 disciplines. This included the 28 "core" Olympic sports contested in 2016 and 2020, and 4 optional sports that were proposed by the Paris Organising Committee: breakdancing made its Olympic debut as an optional sport, while skateboarding, sport climbing, and surfing returned to the programme, having debuted at the 2020 Summer Olympics. Four events were dropped from weightlifting. In canoeing, two sprint events were replaced with two slalom events, keeping the overall event total at 16. In sport climbing, the previous "combined" event was divided into two separate disciplines: speed climbing, and boulder-and-lead.
When Paris was bidding for the Games in August 2017, the Paris Organising Committee announced an intention to hold talks with the IOC and professional esports organisations about the possibility of introducing competitive esports events in 2024. In July 2018, the IOC confirmed that esports would not be considered for the 2024 Olympics. At the 134th IOC Session in June 2019, the IOC approved the Paris Organising Committee's proposed optional sports of breaking (breakdance), along with skateboarding, sport climbing, and surfing, three sports that were first included in 2020.
In the 2024 Paris Olympics, several new events and formats have been introduced. Formula Kite made its debut, described as the "Formula One of the Olympics", featuring high-speed foil racing with separate events for men and women. Kayak cross also debuted, where four athletes race against each other on a course with multiple gates, marking the first head-to-head race in Olympic canoe slalom history. Sport climbing returned with a new format, splitting into bouldering and lead combined events in addition to a speed event. 3x3 basketball, which debuted in Tokyo, was back with finals scheduled for August 5 at Place de La Concorde. Changes in other sports included the introduction of men's participation in artistic swimming, a new women's weight class in boxing, and the addition of a marathon race walk mixed relay in track and field.
Medal reallocations from previous Olympics
In addition to the Medalist Celebrations and the protocolar parts of the Opening Ceremonies, the Champions Park also received some medal reallocation ceremonies from previous Olympics dating back as far as 2000. Due to new IOC rules and protocols, one specific medal awarding ceremony was held in this venue figure skating team event from the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing. It had been the first Olympic medal ceremony to be delayed after Kamila Valieva from original gold medalist Russia was reported and then confirmed to have tested positive in 2021 for trimetazidine. In January 2024, the Court of Arbitration for Sport disqualified Valieva for four years retroactive to 25 December 2021 for an anti-doping rule violation, and the International Skating Union subsequently subtracted Valieva's scores, which upgraded the United States and Japan to gold and silver respectively.Under the IOC's new Medal Reallocation Rules, the IOC, the ISU, and the National Olympic Committees for both the United States and Japan coordinated this medal ceremony.There was thus trail maintenance used during Beijing 2022. However, both delegations for weather reasons were wearing their Paris 2024 uniforms.The Beijing 2022 soundtrack was still used for the medal ceremony, but both teams wore Paris 2024 national uniforms and it was the first medal ceremony from the 2022 Winter Olympics to have a full crowd, as there had been reduced audiences in 2022 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Closing ceremony
The closing ceremony was held at Stade de France on 11 August 2024, and thus marked the first time in any Olympic edition since Sarajevo 1984 that opening and closing ceremonies were held in different locations. Titled "Records", the ceremony was themed around a dystopian future, where the Olympic Games have disappeared, and a group of aliens reinvent it. It featured more than a hundred performers, including acrobats, dancers and circus artists.During the handover ceremonies,the American actor Tom Cruise also appeared with American performers Red Hot Chili Peppers, Billie Eilish, Snoop Dogg, and H.E.R. during the LA28 Handover Celebration portion of the ceremony. The Antwerp Ceremony, in which the Olympic flag was handed to Los Angeles, the host city of the 2028 Summer Olympics, was produced by Ben Winston and his studio Fulwell 73.
Participating National Olympic Committees
204 out of 206 National Olympic Committees are represented at the 2024 Summer Games with 54 from Africa, 48 from Europe, 44 from Asia, 41 from the Americas and 17 from Oceania. North Korea returned to the Games in 2024, after serving a cycle of suspension due to the “boycott” of the 2020 Summer Olympics. Following the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the IOC suspended the Olympic Committees of Russia and Belarus for violating the Olympic Truce. Russian and Belarusian athletes instead competed as "Individual Neutral Athletes" (AIN) without national identification, as long as they did not "actively" support the war. Individual neutral athletes had to be approved by each sport's international federation, and then the IOC's panel. As individual athletes, AIN was not considered a delegation during the opening ceremony or in the medal tables. The Refugee Olympic Team also competed.
Number of athletes by National Olympic Committees
Calendar
In the following calendar for the 2024 Summer Olympics, each blue box represents an event competition, such as a qualification round, on that day. The yellow boxes represent days during which medal-awarding finals for a sport were held. On the left, the calendar lists each sport with events held during the Games, and at the right how many gold medals were won in that sport. There is a key at the top of the calendar to aid the reader.
The emblem for the 2024 Summer Olympics and Paralympics was unveiled on 21 October 2019 at the Grand Rex. Inspired by Art Deco, it is a representation of Marianne, the national personification of France, with a flame formed in negative space by her hair. The emblem also resembles a gold medal. Tony Estanguet explained that the emblem symbolised "the power and the magic of the Games", and the Games being "for people". The use of a female figure also serves as an homage to the 1900 Summer Olympics in Paris, which were the first to allow women to participate. The emblem was designed by the French designer Sylvain Boyer with the French design agencies Royalties & Ecobranding.
The emblem for Paris 2024 was considered the biggest new logo release of 2019 by many design magazines. An Opinion Way survey showed that 83 per cent of French people say they liked the new Paris 2024 Games emblem. Approval ratings were high, with 82 per cent of those surveyed finding it aesthetically appealing and 78 per cent finding it to be creative. It was met with some mockery on social media, one user commenting that the logo "would be better suited to a dating site or a hair salon".
For the first time, the corresponding Paralympics shared the same emblem as the Olympics, with no difference bar the governing bodies' logo, reflecting a shared "ambition" between both events.
Mascots
On 14 November 2022, the Phryges were unveiled as the mascots of the 2024 Summer Olympics and Paralympics; they are a pair of anthropomorphic Phrygian caps, a historic French symbol of freedom and liberty. Marianne is commonly depicted wearing the Phrygian cap, including in the Eugène Delacroix painting, Liberty Leading the People. The two mascots share a motto of "Alone we go faster, but together we go further".
In April 2024, the official Olympic video game titled Olympics Go! Paris 2024 was announced for release in June by Animoca Brands on Android, iOS, and Microsoft Windows devices. The 2024 Summer Olympics became the first Summer Olympics in over 30 years to not have an official console video game.
The Olympic poster for these games was revealed on 4 March 2024. Designed by Ugo Gattoni, the poster uses a diptych design, with one half representing the Olympics and the other half representing the Paralympics. For the first time in Summer Games history, the Olympic poster and Paralympic poster were designed together, as each one can work independently as halves, or be combined into one poster all together. The posters took 2,000 hours, across six months to complete.
Corporate sponsorship
A TGM Research survey found that Coca-Cola was globally the most connected brand with the 2024 Olympics, with 23% of people mentioning it. Nike came in second with 16%, despite not being an official sponsor of the Olympic Games. 
Belgian beverage company AB InBev became the first Worldwide Olympic Partner during the Games, while three companies will not renew their sponsorships after 2024; automobile manufacturer Toyota, reportedly unhappy with how the IOC has used its sponsorship money, arguing that it is not effectively used to support athletes or promote sport; Panasonic, under continuous management considerations regarding sponsorship, with the company also looking to expand its businesses outside consumer electronics; and Bridgestone, with the company instead wanting to strengthen its motorsports division.
Under an agreement as "Premium" sponsor reportedly valued at €150 million ($163 million), French luxury goods conglomerate LVMH has been involved in aspects of the Games, with its brand Louis Vuitton having provided the trunks used to store the Olympic torch and medals, and the outfits and trays for medal presenters. Former IOC marketing head Michael Payne raised concerns that the prominent use of LVMH goods as part of the Olympics (and in particular, the opening ceremony, which also featured the aforementioned items as props, and performers Aya Nakamura and Lady Gaga wearing Dior haute couture) could cause conflicts with other official sponsors, noting that "the direction of stylish sponsor product placement may not be wrong but needs exceptionally careful management. LVMH got a massive free global ad last night and other partners are all going to be asking, how did that work?"
Broadcasting rights
In France, domestic rights to the 2024 Summer Olympics are owned by Warner Bros. Discovery (formerly Discovery Inc.) via Eurosport, with free-to-air coverage sublicensed to the country's public broadcaster France Télévisions. WBD networks will broadcast from Hôtel Raphael, with dedicated studios for its British, French, Polish, and Nordic channels. 
The official Olympics website offers both live-streaming and recent recordings of the events in selected markets, particularly in Brazil, Russia (due to Russian broadcasters pulling out), and the Indian subcontinent.
Concerns and controversies
Several controversial issues occurred related to the 2024 Summer Olympics, including environmental and security concerns, human rights, terrorism, and controversies over allowing Israel to participate amidst the Israel–Hamas war, and allowing Russian and Belarusian athletes to compete as neutrals amidst the Russian invasion of Ukraine. While there is nominally an Olympic Truce in place as is usual, the Russian invasion of Ukraine and Israel–Hamas war set a more conflicted political background to the 2024 Summer Olympics, before considering domestic and sporting issues.
Opening ceremony
A portion of the opening ceremony of the Paris 2024 Olympics sparked significant controversy worldwide for its inclusion of a reenactment of Jan van Bijlert's Le Festin des Dieux, which depicts various Greek gods partaking in a banquet at Mount Olympus. The performance faced heavy backlash from Christian and conservative groups, who accused the performance representing the feast of Dionysus as mocking Leonardo da Vinci's The Last Supper.
The artistic director of the ceremony, Thomas Jolly, the ceremony’s creative team, and many art historians later confirmed that the performance was unrelated to Leonardo da Vinci's The Last Supper. Jolly additionally later stated, "The idea was instead to have a grand pagan festival connected to the gods of Olympus, Olympism".
The Olympic World Library would later publish a media guide (written before the ceremony) describing it as being a homage to cultural festivities. According to Georgian fact checking website Myth Detector, many experts had pointed out the differences between The Last Supper fresco and the performance.
The performance, however, also received praise from others for "celebrating queer visibility and LGBTQ+ inclusivity", according to American magazine Cosmopolitan. Among those who expressed appreciation for the segment were American actress Jodie Sweetin, as well as Le Filip, a Croatian-French drag queen who won the third season of Drag Race France.